---
spell: Telekinetic Grasp
tags:
  - Spell
  - Void-Affinity-Spell
fileClass:
  - Spell
share: true
title: Telekinetic Grasp
keyword: Force; Maneuver
Prerequisites: Void(Air-Anima) Affinity
Target: Creature
Duration: Concentration (see description)
Range: Close
Action: 3 AP
Saving Throw: None
Spell Resistance: No
Description: |-
  You attempt to grapple a single creature using the power of telekinesis. This spell allows you to make a grapple combat maneuver at range using your BCB in place of your BAB and your CAM in place of your strength modifier for determining your MSB. If successful the creature becomes grappled as if you were adjacent to them; and you may maintain the grapple, but cannot use this spell to pin, move, or damage a foe as part of sustaining the grapple. This grapple only may continue as long as you concentrate on the spell, dropping concentration immediately ends the grapple; performing the sustain as part of the action to concentrate on the spell each round. For the purposes of escaping the grapple the creature treats your CMD as equal to your CMB when using this spell rather than your usual CMD. If you fail to maintain the grapple or the creature successfully escapes the grapple the telekinetic grasp immediately ends.
  You may spend a spell point as part of casting this spell to allow your grapple with this spell to damage or move creatures when maintaining the grapple. When choosing to damage foes; allowing you to deal 1d6 + CAM damage on successfully initiating a grapple as well as on maintaining a grapple. When choosing to move a foe, you may move the creature 10 feet plus an additional 5 per 5 BCB you possess; this cannot move a creature vertically, nor go beyond the maximum range of the spell. In addition when you first grapple the creature with this spell you may deal damage to them as if you had chose to damage the creature as part of a maintain.
---

<p><span dir="ltr" style="overflow-x: auto;"><table><tbody><tr><th dir="ltr">Keyword</th><td dir="ltr">Force; Maneuver</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Prerequisites</th><td dir="ltr">Void(Air-Anima) Affinity</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Target</th><td dir="ltr">Creature</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Duration</th><td dir="ltr">Concentration (see description)</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Range</th><td dir="ltr">Close</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Action</th><td dir="ltr">3 AP</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Saving Throw</th><td dir="ltr">None</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Spell Resistance</th><td dir="ltr">No</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Description</th><td dir="ltr">You attempt to grapple a single creature using the power of telekinesis. This spell allows you to make a grapple combat maneuver at range using your BCB in place of your BAB and your CAM in place of your strength modifier for determining your MSB. If successful the creature becomes grappled as if you were adjacent to them; and you may maintain the grapple, but cannot use this spell to pin, move, or damage a foe as part of sustaining the grapple. This grapple only may continue as long as you concentrate on the spell, dropping concentration immediately ends the grapple; performing the sustain as part of the action to concentrate on the spell each round. For the purposes of escaping the grapple the creature treats your CMD as equal to your CMB when using this spell rather than your usual CMD. If you fail to maintain the grapple or the creature successfully escapes the grapple the telekinetic grasp immediately ends.
You may spend a spell point as part of casting this spell to allow your grapple with this spell to damage or move creatures when maintaining the grapple. When choosing to damage foes; allowing you to deal 1d6 + CAM damage on successfully initiating a grapple as well as on maintaining a grapple. When choosing to move a foe, you may move the creature 10 feet plus an additional 5 per 5 BCB you possess; this cannot move a creature vertically, nor go beyond the maximum range of the spell. In addition when you first grapple the creature with this spell you may deal damage to them as if you had chose to damage the creature as part of a maintain.</td></tr></tbody></table></span></p><span><span><hr></span></span><h1><span><p dir="auto">General Telekinetic Grasp Talents</p></span></h1><span><span><hr></span></span><h2><span><p dir="auto">Foe Throw</p></span></h2><p><span dir="ltr" style="overflow-x: auto;"><table><tbody><tr><th dir="ltr">Spell</th><td dir="ltr">Telekinetic Grasp</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Prerequisite</th><td dir="ltr">Telekinetic Grasp, Telekinetic Lift, BCB 6th</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Benefit</th><td dir="ltr">You may spend an additional spell point when using the telekinetic lift talent to allow your grapples to be used more offensively. The distance you may move a creature improves by an additional 5 feet plus 5 feet per 5 BCB. In addition you move a creature with enough force to damage them if they would impact an object or another creature as part of this movement. When moving into an object the creature takes damage as if they had fallen half the distance moved.
When moving into a creature you must make an attack roll treating the grappled creature as a weapon; using your BCB in place of BAB and CAM in place of Strength for the purpose of this attack. If successful the creatures collide causing damage to both based on the size of each creature plus your CAM; with the grappled creature taking damage based on the size of creature it hit, and the hit creature taking damage based on the size of the grappled creature.
- Fine: 1d4
- Diminutive: 1d6
- Tiny: 2d4
- Small: 2d6
- Medium: 3d4
- Large: 3d6
- Huge: 4d4
- Gargantuan: 4d6
- Colossal: 6d4</td></tr></tbody></table></span></p><h2><span><p dir="auto">Implosion</p></span></h2><p><span dir="ltr" style="overflow-x: auto;"><table><tbody><tr><th dir="ltr">Spell</th><td dir="ltr">Telekinetic Grasp</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Prerequisite</th><td dir="ltr">Telekinetic Grasp, Telekinetic Crush, BCB 16th</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Saving Throw</th><td dir="ltr">Physical (Half)</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Benefit</th><td dir="ltr">When spending a spell point to allow telekinetic grasp to deal damage, you may spend two additional spell points to focus the telekinetic grasp solely into crushing a foe. Rather than grapple a foe with telekinetic grasp they are subject to a Physical save attack. A successful save attack causes the target to take 10 points of damage per BCB as they begin to implode in on themselves; this is in addition to the usual grappled condition. A failed save attack causes the target to take half damage from this spell and immediately ends the telekinetic grasp. The target is subject to a new Physical save attack each round as you continue to concentrate on the spell. If your save attack succeeds by one degree or more the target is dazed in addition to the damage for that round. If your save attack fails by less than one degree the creature is staggered for 1 round. A creature may still attempt to escape the grapple as normal for the telekinetic grasp spell. Rather than the usual options the spell focuses entirely on the implosion, removing the ability for telekinetic grasp to perform the usual actions of the spell or maintaining a grapple.</td></tr></tbody></table></span></p><h2><span><p dir="auto">Telekinetic Crush</p></span></h2><p><span dir="ltr" style="overflow-x: auto;"><table><tbody><tr><th dir="ltr">Spell</th><td dir="ltr">Telekinetic Grasp</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Prerequisite</th><td dir="ltr">Telekinetic Grasp, BCB 8th</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Benefit</th><td dir="ltr">You may increase the spell point cost of telekinetic grasp by 1 to allow your grapple to damage a foe at the same time as moving them with the spell; rather than needing to choose each time you maintain.</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Special</th><td dir="ltr">Even if you do not use this talent's ability to increase the spell point cost by 1, using this talent improves the damage dealt as part of maintaining a grapple by 1 step plus an additional step at 10 BCB every 10 thereafter.</td></tr></tbody></table></span></p><h2><span><p dir="auto">Telekinetic Lift</p></span></h2><p><span dir="ltr" style="overflow-x: auto;"><table><tbody><tr><th dir="ltr">Spell</th><td dir="ltr">Telekinetic Grasp</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Prerequisite</th><td dir="ltr">Telekinetic Grasp, BCB 4th</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Saving Throw</th><td dir="ltr">Physical Negates</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Spell Resistance</th><td dir="ltr">Yes</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Benefit</th><td dir="ltr">When spending a spell point to allow movement with telekinetic grasp when grappling a creature you may lift the creature. You may move the creature in any direction as part of maintaining the grapple including vertically. Using this talent requires a save attack against the creature, with a failed save attack immediately ending the spell. Dropping a creature using this ability subjects the creature to the normal effects of falling based on the distance they fall.</td></tr></tbody></table></span></p><h2><span><p dir="auto">Telekinetic Maneuver</p></span></h2><p><span dir="ltr" style="overflow-x: auto;"><table><tbody><tr><th dir="ltr">Spell</th><td dir="ltr">Telekinetic Grasp</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Prerequisite</th><td dir="ltr">Telekinetic Grasp, BCB 2nd</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Benefit</th><td dir="ltr">Your capabilities with telekinetic grasp are expanded allowing you to perform trip, disarm, and reposition combat maneuvers in addition to grapple, at the usual range limits of the spell.
Reposition maneuvers with this talent are limited to the maximum range with the spell and cannot continue beyond the limit of the spell. When performing a shove reposition with this spell you may choose any side of a creature as the point of origin of the effect as if you were standing there to perform the maneuver, this location must be within the area of the spell's range.
You may spend one additional spell point when casting Telekinetic grasp with this talent to allow for a single trip, disarm, or reposition maneuver to occur in addition to the first successful grapple check made with this spell. Alternatively you may allow your telekinetic grasp to attempt to pin a creature as part of maintaining instead of performing this additional maneuver. On maintaining a pin you may spend one additional spell point to "tie up" a creature by spending an additional spell point to allow this spell to continue without concentration for 1 minute per BCB, treating the creature as if they had been tied up using the MSB of the spell +20 (instead of rolling) for the duration of the spell. </td></tr></tbody></table></span></p>