---
share: true
title: List of Martial Feats
---

Martial feats are a style of feat that allows a character to expand upon their martial capability through proficiencies, maneuvers, or some other feat that increases the utility of a character in combat and does not directly lead to more damage output of a character. Martial feats may be taken as normal feats, though are usually granted as bonus feats through martial classes.

<h3><span><p dir="auto">Armor Proficiency (Martial)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    You gain proficiency in simple armor. If you already have simple armor proficiency you may instead select light martial or heavy martial armor and you gain proficiency in that type of armor. If you have proficiency in light martial armor you may select a single exotic light armor; or if you have proficiency in heavy martial armor you may select a single exotic heavy armor, you gain proficiency in the selected armor.<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Special</b>:    You may select this feat more than once, each time gaining a new armor proficiency.<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Assassin (Martial)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Stealth 3 ranks<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    Stealth check penalties for moving quickly are halved, moving at full speed, and reaching concealment after creating a distraction. At 5 ranks of Stealth you reduce the Stealth penalty from sniping by 10. At 10 ranks of Stealth, if you attack after successfully using Stealth, your target is Flat-Footed against all attacks that you make before the end of your turn.<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Axe Defense (Martial)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    You have learned to deflect blows when using an axe. You gain a +2 dodge bonus to AC anytime you spend 4 AP or more on a Focused Attack with a weapon with the axe keyword. In addition you gain a +1 dodge bonus to AC anytime you take the total defense action while wielding an axe keyword weapon.<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Battle High (Martial)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Stamina<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    Treat your Endurance modifier as 2 higher when determining the number of temporary hit points gained by the Second Wind ability.<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Bodyguard (Martial)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    When an ally, besides yourself, within your threatened area is targeted by an attack you may spend a Reaction to use the Aid action on them to improve their AC.<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Bull Rush (Martial)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    You may perform a Shove reposition maneuver at the end of a charge instead of the usual attack granted at the end of a charge. In addition to a successful Shove you push the creature an additional 5 feet + 5 feet per 10 BAB you possess.<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Special</b>:    You may spend 1 stamina when using this feat to push the creature a number of feet equal to half your remaining distance of your charge on a successful reposition maneuver, but you must move with the target for this reposition instead of the usual shove. This replaces the normal distance allowed by the reposition or this additional distance granted by this feat.<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Bullying Blow (Martial)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Intimidate 1 rank<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    Once per round when you hit a foe with a melee attack, you may make an Intimidate check to demoralize against that foe as a Reaction. For every 4 ranks of Intimidate you possess after 1, you may use this ability one additional time per round.<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Dash (Martial)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    When wielding weapons no heavier than light category, you may treat your movement speed as 10 higher when performing a Charge or Run action.<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Defender (Martial)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Bodyguard<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    When using the Bodyguard feat, you may add half your Base Defense Bonus (minimum +1) to the amount of AC bonus you grant with the Aid action. If the ally would still be hit you may, as a Reaction, choose to take the damage in place of your ally.<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Special</b>:    You may spend 1 stamina as part of the Aid action to improve the bonus to your full Base Defense Bonus.<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Defensive Mastery (Martial)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    You may treat your Base Attack Bonus as equal to half your hit die, for the purposes of calculating your Base Defense Bonus.<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Deflect Arrows (Martial)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Parry, Base Attack Bonus +4<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    You may use the parry feat against ranged attacks in addition to melee attacks; but you still cannot parry ranged touch attacks or spells.<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Special</b>:    Once per round while in Defensive Stance, when you successfully parry a ranged attack and if you have a hand free, you may choose to spend 1 stamina to catch the projectile and immediately throw it as a ranged attack. If the projectile was ammunition, treat it as a thrown weapon that you are proficient in with weapon damage of 1d4, a x2 critical multiplier, and a 20 foot range increment; if the object was a thrown weapon instead use the statistics of the thrown weapon.<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Demoralizing Display (Martial)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    As a 4 AP action, you may make a single Intimidate check to demoralize all foes within 30 feet who can see you. At +5 BAB and every 5 thereafter improve the range of this feat by an additional 5 feet.<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Special</b>:    You may spend one point of stamina to reduce the AP required to use this feat to 2 AP.<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Diehard (Martial)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Toughness<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    When your hit point total is below 0, but you are not dead, you automatically stabilize. You do not need to make a Survival check each round to avoid losing additional hit points. You may choose to act as if you were disabled, rather than dying. You must make this decision as soon as you are reduced to negative hit points (even if it isn't your turn). If you do not choose to act as if you were disabled, you immediately fall unconscious.<br><br>When using this feat, you are staggered. You can take a 2 AP action without further injuring yourself, but if you perform any 3 AP or higher (or any other action deemed as strenuous, including some reactions, such as casting a quickened spell) you take 1 point of damage after completing the act; this damage cannot be reduced.<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Evasion (Martial)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Agi 13, Lightning Reflexes, Base Attack Bonus +8<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    You can avoid even magical and unusual attacks with great agility. When you make a successful Physical(Agi) saving throw against an attack that normally deals half damage on a successful save, you instead take no damage. Evasion can be used only if the character is not at a medium or greater encumbrance. A helpless character does not gain the benefit of evasion.<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Extra Stamina (Martial)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Stamina class feature.<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    Your stamina pool total increases by 2.<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Special</b>:    A character may take this feat more than once. The effects stack.<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Fast Crawl (Martial)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    While prone, you can move at half speed. This movement provokes attacks of opportunity as normal. In addition, you can Shift while crawling.<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Frightful Presence (Martial)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    Intimidate 5 ranks<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Special</b>:    If your demoralize attempt succeeds by two degrees of success, the target gains the Frightened condition for 1d4 rounds and thereafter gains the Shaken condition for the normal shaken duration based upon the result of your check. If you succeed by three degrees of success, the target instead gains the Panicked condition for 1d4 rounds and is thereafter shaken. Four degrees of success causes the target to gain the Cowering condition for 1d4 rounds and be shaken thereafter.<br><br>When you reach 10 ranks in Intimidate, if your demoralize attempt fails by one degree or less the target is still shaken for 1 round.<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Grab (Martial)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Maneuver Training<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    Your natural weapons are treated as having the grapple weapon feature. In addition when maintaining a grapple with a natural weapon or unarmed strike you deal damage equal to your Strength modifier (minimum 0); you may still choose to deal damage as normal when maintaining a grapple in addition to this.<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Special</b>:    You may spend 1 stamina as a Reaction to make a Grapple maneuver after a successful hit with a weapon that has the grapple weapon feature. This maneuver uses the same cumulative attack penalty as the attack that triggered it; meaning if used as part of an additional attack made at -5 then the resulting MSB roll would also be at -5.<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Graceful Reach (Martial)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    You treat any weapon with both the Polearm and Blade, or Polearm and Spear keywords as having the finesse property.<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Grapple Shield (Martial)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Improved Grapple, Base Attack Bonus +4<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    When you are the target of an attack while grappling (from a creature besides the one you are grappling), you may attempt a Reposition maneuver against the grappled creature as a once-per-round Reaction; the grappled creature treats this as moving into hazardous terrain (gaining a +5 morale bonus to the opposed save roll).<br><br>On a success, you move the creature between you and the attacker or, if the attacker was adjacent to you or there is not enough space to reposition a Large or larger creature, swap positions with the grappled creature (this movement does not provoke attacks of opportunity). The attack is instead rolled against the grappled creature. If the Reposition attempt fails, the grapple immediately ends and the creature is not made the target of the incoming attack.<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Special</b>:    You may spend 1 stamina to deny the grappled creature the +5 bonus to their opposed save roll.<br><br>If either you or the grappled creature take up more than 1 space and you swap positions with it, it moves so that it occupies at least 1 space targeted by the attack and you move to share at least 1 space with its previous position. Your movement must end adjacent to the grappled creature.<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Greater Feint (Martial)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Improved Feint, Base Attack Bonus +6<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    Whenever you use the Feint action to cause an opponent to become Flat-Footed, that opponent loses their bonus until the beginning of your next turn in addition to being Flat-Footed against your next attack.<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Guardian (Martial)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    When fighting defensively, you may grant a single ally within your reach the dodge bonus you would gain from fighting defensively rather than yourself. The ally loses this bonus if they move out of your reach. In addition, once per round as a Reaction you may swap places with this ally; if the swap is done in response to an attack the ally gains an additional +2 untyped bonus to AC against that attack.<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Special</b>:    You may spend 1 stamina at the start of your turn to retain the bonuses from fighting defensively yourself in addition to granting them to the ally, until the start of your next turn.<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Improved Dirty Trick (Martial)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Maneuver Training, Base Attack Bonus +4<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    You receive an additional +2 bonus to MSB to attempt a Dirty Trick maneuver. Whenever you successfully perform a Dirty Trick, the penalty lasts for 1d4+1 rounds, plus 1 round for every degree by which your attack exceeds the target’s save. In addition, removing the imposed condition requires the target to spend 1 additional AP.<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Improved Disarm (Martial)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Maneuver Training, Base Attack Bonus +4<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    You receive an additional +1 bonus to MSB to disarm a foe, plus an additional +1 per 5 Base Attack Bonus you possess. You gain half this bonus to your saves against Disarm attempts (minimum 1).<br><br>You reduce the bonus against being disarmed that a creature gains from the integrated or attached weapon property by a number of points equal to half your Base Attack Bonus (to a minimum of 0). In addition, when you disarm a weapon you may choose to spend a Reaction to immediately stow the weapon on yourself if you do not have a hand free to hold it.<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Improved Evasion (Martial)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Agi 15, Lightning Reflexes, Evasion, Base Attack Bonus +14<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    This works like the Evasion feat, except that while you still take no damage on a successful Physical(Agi) saving throw, you take only half damage on a failed save. A helpless character does not gain the benefit of Improved Evasion. You do not gain the benefits of this feat while wearing heavy armor, or when at a medium or greater encumbrance.<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Improved Feint (Martial)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    You receive an additional +2 bonus to your Bluff checks when attempting to Feint. In addition, you may make a Bluff check to Feint as a 2 AP action.<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Improved Grapple (Martial)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Maneuver Training, Base Attack Bonus +4<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    You receive an additional +1 bonus to MSB to grapple a foe, plus an additional +1 per 5 Base Attack Bonus you possess. You gain half this bonus to your saves against grapple attempts (minimum 1).<br><br>If you are already engaged in a grapple, maintaining the grapple is a 2 AP action. If you make more than one grapple check in a round to maintain a grapple, you only need to succeed at one of these checks to maintain the grapple.<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Improved Indomitable (Martial)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Foc 15, Steel Mind Indomitable, Base Attack Bonus +14<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    In addition to the effects of Indomitable, when you fail a saving throw against an effect treat it as if you had failed by one degree less; this cannot turn a failed save into a successful save. A helpless character does not gain the benefit of this feat.<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Improved Reposition (Martial)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Maneuver Training, Base Attack Bonus +4<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    You receive an additional +1 bonus to MSB to reposition a foe, plus an additional +1 per 5 Base Attack Bonus you possess. You gain half this bonus to your saves against Reposition maneuvers (minimum 1). Whenever you reposition a foe, your target’s movement provokes attacks of opportunity from allies that threaten it.<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Improved Roll With It (Martial)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Mystic Pool or Stamina Pool; Base Attack Bonus +1<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    You may use the Reaction reroll of the “Roll With It” stamina ability once per short rest without needing to spend a stamina point. You may use this ability an additional time between short rests at 6th BAB and every 5 BAB thereafter.<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Improved Stalwart (Martial)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Prerequisite</b>:    End 15, Great Fortitude, Stalwart Base Attack Bonus +14<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    In addition to the effects of the Stalwart feat, when you fail a saving throw against an effect treat it as if you had failed by one degree less; this cannot turn a failed save into a successful save. A helpless character does not gain the benefit of this feat.<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Improved Sunder (Martial)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Maneuver Training, Base Attack Bonus +4<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    ou receive an additional +1 bonus to MSB to Sunder attempts, plus an additional +1 per 5 Base Attack Bonus you possess. You gain half this bonus to your saves against Sunder attempts (minimum 1).<br><br>When you destroy an item with a Sunder maneuver, half of the excess damage is applied to the item’s wielder. No damage is transferred to the wielder if you decide to leave the item with 1 hit point.<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Special</b>:    When you successfully sunder a target’s natural weapons or armor, you deal additional damage to the target equal to your Base Attack Bonus (applied before any reductions, but this additional damage is not reduced by half like the normal damage of a Sunder maneuver).<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Improved Trip (Martial)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Maneuver Training, Base Attack Bonus +4<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    You receive an additional +1 bonus to MSB to Trip attempts, plus an additional +1 per 5 Base Attack Bonus you possess. You gain half this bonus to your saves against Trip attempts (minimum 1).<br><br>Whenever you successfully trip an opponent, that opponent provokes attacks of opportunity after it falls prone.<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Improvised Climber (Martial)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    As a 3 AP action you may fire a Bow keyword weapon or throw a Thrown keyword weapon (that is not a Sling keyword weapon) at a wall, cliff, or other vertical surface; doing so counts as a piton in a wall for the purposes of climbing. You may shoot or throw up to 2 arrows or thrown weapons as part of this ability plus an additional 2 per 1 AP spent beyond the initial 3 AP of this action. Pitons created by projectiles in this way are not as steady as normal pitons and can only support up to an amount of weight up to a light load normally allowed by your Strength score. Creatures attempting to remove these pitons must succeed on an MSB check against 10+ your MSB. If you are using a ranged weapon that deals 1.5x strength modifier damage (such as a composite bow or a thrown weapon thrown with two hands), treat your Strength score as 50% higher for the purposes of determining the maximum load of these improvised pitons.<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Special</b>:    If you have the Exceptional Pull feat and are in Power Stance when using this feat, you may treat your Strength score as 2 higher for the purposes of determining the maximum load of the pitons and your MSB for pulling the pitons from the wall.<br><br>You may spend 1 stamina to use your Agility score in place of your Strength when determining the maximum load of the pitons and your MSB for pulling the pitons from the wall.<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Improvised Coordination (Martial)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    You no longer take the normal nonproficiency penalty for wielding an improvised weapon, melee or thrown, and treat any improvised weapon as if you were proficient. These still deal damage as normal for an improvised weapon and are treated as improvised weapons for the purposes of any feats or abilities that apply to improvised weapons.<br><br>In addition you treat any non-improvised melee weapon you attempt to throw as if it had a 5 foot range increment if it did not have one already, no longer treating it as improvised when thrown.<br><br>You still suffer a proficiency penalty for weapons you are not proficient in, unless you wield them in an unintended way (such as using a bow as a melee weapon), in which they become improvised weapons and deal damage as normal for an improvised weapon and not as the original weapon would have.<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Special</b>:    You may spend 1 stamina as part of throwing a weapon to improve their range increment by 5 feet.<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Indomitable (Martial)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Foc 13, Steel Mind, Base Attack Bonus +8<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    Your mind is like an impenetrable fortress, as most attacks against it seem to just slide off. When you make a successful Mental save saving throw against an attack, you treat your roll as if it had rolled one degree of success higher. A helpless character does not gain the benefit of this feat.<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Lightning Reload (Martial)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Agi 15, Rapid Reload, Trigger Mastery, Base Attack Bonus +6<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    You no longer require two hands or a free hand to reload a trigger weapon, as long as you are capable of taking the action required to reload it.<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Special</b>:    You may spend 1 stamina as part of reloading to not provoke attacks of opportunity for reloading.<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Lightspeed Dash (Martial)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Stamina or Mystic Pool; Dash, Base Attack Bonus +10<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    As a Reaction as part of moving (such as an action made to move, run, or charge), you may spend 1 stamina; doing so allows you to teleport instead of the normal movement. This does not grant additional movement but instead allows your movement to ignore threatened or occupied spaces, difficult terrain, traps, or other hazards in the intervening spaces. You must still have line of sight of your destination, and you must have been capable of reaching the square with normal movement (as such, a closed door or not being able to fly could prevent the use of this feat, but a creature occupying an intervening space would not hinder your movement).<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Maneuver Training (Martial)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    You do not provoke attacks of opportunity when performing a maneuver. In addition, you receive a +1 bonus MSB and a +2 to saves against all maneuvers.<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Mobile Reload (Martial)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    When reloading a weapon as a 2 or 3 AP action, you may move up to half your speed as part of reloading. If reloading a weapon as a 4 AP action, you may move up to your full movement speed as part of reloading. Both the movement and the reloading provoke attacks of opportunity as normal.<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Special</b>:    You may choose to increase the action point cost to reload a weapon to 2, 3, or 4 AP if it would otherwise be lower.<br><br>You may spend 1 stamina as part of reloading to treat your movement speed as 10 feet higher for the purpose of determining movement from this feat.<br><br>If you possess the Rapid Reload feat, you may move up to your full speed rather than half as part of reloading as a 2 or 3 AP action; if reloading as a 4 AP action you may instead move up to double your movement speed as part of reloading.<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Mounted Archery (Martial)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Ride 1 rank.<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    You have been trained in the art of ranged combat on a mount. The penalty to ranged attack rolls resulting from your mount’s movement during your turn (including when it takes the Run action) is reduced to match the penalty to melee attack rolls; this includes eliminating the penalty to ranged attack rolls if the mount moves less than its base speed during the turn.<br><br>Additionally, if your mount’s movement brings you more than 20 feet closer to the target of your ranged attack, the first ranged attack made against that target gains a +1 bonus to weapon damage from the added momentum; you lose this bonus if the mount moves away from the target. The bonus damage increases by 1 point for every 20 feet of distance the mount brings you closer to the target of your ranged attack, up to a maximum of 1 + 1 for every 4 ranks of Ride you possess.<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Special</b>:    You may spend 1 stamina to reduce the increment to gain bonus weapon damage to 10 feet per point, and extend the bonus to every ranged weapon attack made before the start of your next turn.<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Nimble Strike (Martial)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Acrobatics 5 ranks<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    If you succeed in using Acrobatics to move through a foe’s threatened area, you gain a +4 bonus on the next attack roll you make against that foe before the end of your next turn. You may treat the target’s MSB as 1 lower for the purpose of this check for every 5 ranks of Acrobatics you possess.<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Special</b>:    You may spend 1 stamina when making an Acrobatics check to move through a foe’s threatened area to move at full speed without increasing the DC of the attempt.<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Pain Tolerance (Martial)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Base Attack Bonus +4<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    Taking nonlethal damage in excess of half your maximum hit points no longer causes you to gain the Fatigued condition, and become Fatigued rather than Exhausted condition if you take nonlethal damage equal to or greater than half your maximum hit points and greater than or equal to your current hit points. This fatigue may increase the severity of any Fatigued or Exhausted condition that you gain from another source as normal.<br><br>In addition, when your nonlethal damage exceeds your maximum hit points, you only gain the Staggered condition rather than falling unconscious; however, you still fall unconscious if your nonlethal damage equals your maximum hit points and your current hit points are at half your maximum or lower.<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Special</b>:    You may spend 1 stamina as a Reaction when you would fall unconscious from nonlethal damage to instead gain the Staggered condition and remain conscious until the end of your next turn before falling unconscious, and this ability cannot be used again to further extend the duration. If you take additional lethal or nonlethal damage before the end of your next turn, you fall unconscious and this ability cannot be used again to further extend the duration.<br><br>If you have the Diehard feat, you no longer gain the Staggered condition if nonlethal damage equals your maximum hit points, and are only staggered if your nonlethal damage equals your maximum hit points and your current hit points are at half your maximum or lower. If you are acting while disabled at or below 0 hit points, you still take damage from performing a strenuous action.<br><br>If you possess the Unnatural Resolve feat, you no longer gain the Staggered condition from nonlethal damage, but if you are also acting while disabled at or below 0 hit points the damage you take from performing a strenuous action is doubled if your nonlethal damage equals your maximum hit points.<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Parry (Martial)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Base Attack Bonus +2<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    Once per round, if a melee attack would hit you, you may spend a Reaction in an attempt to parry the attack with a melee weapon. To parry, you make a single attack roll and use the result in place of your AC to determine if the incoming attack misses. This feat may not be used to parry melee touch attacks, ranged attacks, or spells. At +6 BAB and every 6 thereafter you may use this feat an additional time per round.</p>
<p dir="auto">You may use this feat an additional time per round using your off-hand weapon at a -2 penalty if you possess the Two-Weapon Fighting feat. If you possess Improved Two-Weapon fighting and Greater Two-Weapon Fighting feats you gain an additional use per round using your off-hand weapon for each of these feats. If you are parrying with an off-hand shield, this penalty is reduced by an amount equal to the shield’s shield bonus. For each additional use of this feat using an off-hand weapon you take a cumulative -1 penalty on all attack rolls with that off-hand weapon until the end of your next turn.<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Special</b>:    You may spend one stamina when using this feat to use this feat an additional time per round.<br><br>When wielding a double weapon or two weapons, you gain a +1 shield bonus to AC which stacks with the blocking weapon feature but does not stack with any other shield bonus.<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Phalanx Brace (Martial)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:     You treat any two-handed weapon with the polearm or spear keyword as if it was a one-handed melee weapon, as long as you wield a shield in your other hand. Fighting in this way imparts an additional -2 penalty as long as the polearm is used as a one-handed melee weapon; this penalty applies to all attacks and maneuver rolls, not just those made with the polearm.<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Special</b>:    You may spend 1 stamina, as a free action on your turn, to reduce the penalty from this feat to 0 until the start of your next turn.<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Punishing Kick (Martial)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Improved Unarmed Strike, Base Attack Bonus +6<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    You may spend 1 stamina to make a punishing kick as part of an unarmed attack. You must declare your intent before making the attack roll, and on a failed attack the ability is wasted. On a successful hit, the attack deals damage as normal and you can choose to push your target 5 feet or attempt to knock it prone. If you decide to push the target, it is moved 5 feet directly away from you; this movement does not provoke attacks of opportunity, and the target must end the movement in a valid space that it can stand in. If you decide to attempt to knock the target prone, you must make a Physical(Str) save attack using your MSB. You may only make an attempt using this feat once per round.<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Quarterstaff Master (Martial)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    You may wield a quarterstaff as a one-handed weapon without penalty. If wielded as a one-handed weapon it cannot be used as a double weapon.<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Quick Draw (Martial)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    You can draw a weapon as a free action. You can draw a hidden weapon (see the Sleight of Hand skill) as a 2 AP action. You may draw throwing weapons as a free action between attacks if you are making multiple attacks in the same action (much like a character reloading with a bow). Alchemical items, potions, scrolls, and wands cannot be drawn quickly using this feat.<br><br>On your turn, you may use a Reaction to stow a weapon and you do not provoke an attack of opportunity for stowing a weapon in this way.<br><br>Normal: Without this feat, you may draw a weapon as a 1 AP action. Without this feat, you can draw a hidden weapon as a 3 AP action. Without this feat, you can sheath or stow a weapon as a 2 AP action which provokes an attack of opportunity.<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Rapid Reload (Martial)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    The action point cost required to reload a ranged weapon is reduced by 1 (minimum 0).<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Special</b>:    You may spend 1 stamina to reduce the AP required to reload by an additional 1 (minimum 0).<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Ricochet Throw (Martial)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Quick Draw, Agi 13<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    When you make a ranged attack with a non-improvised thrown weapon, the weapon returns to your hand immediately after the attack is resolved. This ability does not allow bullets, thrown ammunition such as darts or shuriken, or thrown splash weapons to return to you. Improvised thrown weapons don’t return to you unless you have the Improvised Coordination feat.<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Special</b>:    If you have the Improvised Coordination feat you may utilize this feat with improvised thrown weapons.<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Scavenge (Martial)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Quick Draw<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    You may retrieve an unattended object in your space or an adjacent space (such as a disarmed weapon on the ground, a torch in a sconce, or a flask of alchemist’s fire on a table) as a Reaction which does not provoke attacks of opportunity, so long as the object is in the open and readily available. Opening a container to retrieve an item still incurs the normal action point cost for doing so.<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Shield Wall (Martial)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    You may, as a 2 AP action, use a Light or Heavy shield to grant yourself partial cover, or a tower shield to grant total cover, until the beginning of your next turn. When using a shield in this way, you choose one edge of your space and treat that edge as a wall for the purposes of determining if you would be granted cover from incoming ranged attacks and area of effect spells; this does not protect from targeted ranged or melee spells. You cannot use this cover to make a Stealth check to hide. You may not make attacks with a shield when it is used in this way, but you may make an attack with the shield before taking this action.<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Special</b>:    You may spend 1 stamina to reduce the AP cost of this feat by 1.<br><br>If you are wielding two light, two heavy, or a light and a heavy shield you may spend an additional AP to instead use both shields as part of this ability to grant total cover on a single edge of your space, rather than partial cover on two different edges of your space.<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Shielded Evasion (Martial)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Lightning Reflexes, Base Attack Bonus +8<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    You may use the Raise Shield reaction to apply your shield bonus against incoming touch attacks.<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Special</b>:    You may ignore the Agility requirement of the Evasion feat, but not the Improved Evasion feat. Additionally, when you have the Evasion feat and use the Raise Shield reaction you gain the benefits of Evasion even if you are in heavy armor or at a medium or greater encumbrance; you still do not gain the benefits of the Improved Evasion feat in heavy armor, or when in a medium or greater encumbrance.<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Smash (Martial)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    When you attack an inanimate, unattended object, you ignore the first 5 points of its hardness.<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Special</b>:    This feat does not apply to Sunder attempts or attacks against construct creatures; only attacks against inanimate, unattended objects receive the benefit.<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Stalwart (Martial)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Prerequisite</b>:    End 13, Great Fortitude, Base Attack Bonus +8<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    You can shrug off magical and unusual attacks easier than most. When you make a successful Resilience(End) save saving throw against an attack, you treat your roll as if it had rolled one degree of success higher. A helpless character does not gain the benefit of this feat.<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Stunning Fist (Martial)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Improved Unarmed Strike, Base Attack Bonus +6<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    You may spend 1 stamina to use stunning fist as part of an unarmed attack. You must declare your intent before making the attack roll, and on a failed attack the ability is wasted. On a successful hit, the attack deals damage as normal and you may make a Resilience(End) save attack against the creature using your MSB. A successful save attack causes the creature to be stunned for 1 round (until the beginning of your next turn). You may only make an attempt using this feat once per round.<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Special</b>:    You may use your Focus in place of your Strength for determining your MSB for the save attack of this feat.<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Suplex (Martial)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Prerequisite</b>:    When dealing damage with an unarmed strike as part of sustaining a grapple, you deal an additional 1d6 damage to the target.<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    You may spend 1 stamina as part of using this ability to make a Resilience(End) Save attack against the target using your MSB, if you succeed the target gains the Dazed condition for 1 round.<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Tackle (Martial)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Maneuver Training, Base Attack Bonus +1<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    You may use a Grapple maneuver at the end of a charge instead of the usual attack, gaining a bonus to your MSB equal to the bonus to attack rolls gained from the charge.<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Special</b>:    You may spend 1 stamina as part of the charge to ignore any penalties imposed by the charge.<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Tenacious Survivor (Martial)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Diehard, Unbreakable, 3 hit die or more<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    When you are killed by hit point damage, your soul lingers in your body for a number of rounds equal to your Endurance bonus. You are still dead, but a creature within 10 feet can make a DC 10 Medic check to realize that you can still be saved. You can be healed by magic as if you were alive. If you are healed by enough hit points that you would no longer be dead, you return to life, but you gain one permanent negative level.<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Third Wind (Martial)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Stamina, Base Attack Bonus +8<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    You may use your Second Wind ability an additional time between short rests.<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Titan's Vengeance (Martial)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Diehard, Unbreakable, 8 hit die or more<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    When your negative hit points meet or exceed your death threshold, you do not immediately die; instead you may act for one additional round. You gain a +2 bonus on attack and damage rolls against the creature that would have dealt the killing blow, as well as a 10-foot bonus to your movement speed when pursuing that creature. At the end of the additional round you immediately die, even if you received any healing during that time.<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Special</b>:    If you decide to use this feat, you cannot be saved through spells or features that allow a target to be healed after death or feats like Tenacious Survivor. You may still be revived as normal for a dead creature through resurrection spells and rituals.<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Torch Wielder (Martial)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    You wield a torch as a light improvised melee weapon that deals an additional 1 point of fire damage if lit. You do not incur the normal penalties for using an improvised weapon.<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Special</b>:    If you have the Improvised Coordination feat, the torch deals damage as a light mace and the fire damage improves from 1 to 1d4.<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Toughness (Martial)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    You gain +3 maximum hit points.<br><br>In addition, you gain a +4 bonus on the following checks and saves: Tenacity checks made to continue swimming; Tenacity checks made to continue running; Tenacity checks made to avoid nonlethal damage from a forced march; Tenacity checks made to hold your breath; Tenacity checks made to avoid nonlethal damage from starvation or thirst; Resilience saves made to avoid nonlethal damage from hot or cold environments.<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Special</b>:    If your game uses maximum hit points at each level, grant an additional +2 hit points for every hit dice.<br><br>If your game uses average or high-average hit points at each level, you may instead use the maximum value of your hit dice for each level (this bonus is retroactive if taken after 1st level).<br><br>If your game uses rolled hit points, roll twice and take the better result at each level (this bonus is retroactive if taken after 1st level).<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Trigger Mastery (Martial)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Agi 15, Rapid Reload, Base Attack Bonus +6<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    The action point cost required to reload any type of trigger keyword weapon is reduced by 2 AP (minimum 0). Reloading a trigger weapon still provokes attacks of opportunity even if it is done as a 0 AP action. In addition, you may add half your Base Attack Bonus to all damage rolls made with a trigger keyword weapon; this additional damage is reduced by half if you later gain the ability to add an ability score modifier (such as Agility) to the damage roll in addition to the bonus provided by this feat.<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Special</b>:    You may spend 1 stamina to double the damage bonus provided by this feat until the start of your next turn.<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Unbreakable (Martial)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Diehard<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    You gain an additional +2 maximum hit points per hit die you possess in addition to those granted by the Toughness feat. In addition, you may add double your number of hit dice to your Endurance score to determine when your death threshold.<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Unnatural Resolve (Martial)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Diehard<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    You are no longer staggered while disabled; you still take 1 damage for performing a 3 AP action while disabled and you take 2 points of damage for performing a 4 AP or higher action. This damage cannot be reduced.<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Unusual Grip (Martial)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Agi 13<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    You have learned to wield weapons in an unusual fashion, gaining the ability to wield a weapon in your mouth, with a leg, juggled, or in some other unorthodox way. You are considered to have an extra hand available to wield a light or one-handed weapon. This ability doesn’t grant you the ability to make additional attacks, though it does allow you to use different weapons as part of a full attack. This additional hand cannot assist in wielding a two-handed weapon (though a character, for example, could use this to hold a light or one handed weapon with their mouth to free their actual hands for holding a two-handed weapon). Attacks and skills performed using this additional hand take a -2 penalty due to the less coordinated nature.<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Visceral Feint (Martial)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Prerequisite</b>:    You may use Intimidate, rather than Bluff, to attempt a Feint.<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    You may spend 2 stamina to also attempt to demoralize the opponent as part of the Feint attempt.<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Wall Leaper (Martial)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Athletics 5 ranks<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    As part of jumping or falling, you may make an Athletics check to push off from an adjacent surface as a Reaction. This may only be done if there is a solid surface such as a wall, floor, or other surface adjacent to you (you may treat creatures of your size or larger as solid surfaces, but are subject to attacks of opportunity as normal for movement) which would normally be climbable without special tools.<br><br>If used as part of falling, if you succeed on a DC 15 Athletics check you may treat your fall as 10 feet shorter (as if it was a deliberate fall). If you are adjacent to another wall after the jump, you may spend another Reaction to jump again; if the second Athletics check is also a success, you may treat the fall as an additional 10 feet shorter. This may be repeated until you fail an Athletics check or can no longer spend Reactions.<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Special</b>:    If you possess the Run or Dash feats, you may also run up or along a wall as part of movement (running along a wall uses the same amount of movement as running on a floor, and running up a wall costs twice as much movement), but once your movement ends you must be standing on a solid surface or grasping a handhold (such as a ledge) or fall.<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Weapon Proficiency (Martial)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    You gain proficiency in simple weapons. If you already have simple weapon proficiency you may instead select a single martial or exotic weapon, you gain proficiency in that weapon. If you select a shield such as a Buckler, Light Shield, Heavy Shield, or Tower Shield you gain both proficiency in the weapon(shield bash) and the shield.<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Special</b>:    You may select this feat more than once, each time gaining a new weapon proficiency.<br></p></span></p>