---
share: true
---
Magic feats are a style of feat that are generally meant for casters, by making improvements to their spellcasting abilities, creating unique interactions for spells, or allowing the bypassing of some casting limitations.

<h3><span><p dir="auto">Advanced Spellstrike (Magic)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Spellstrike meta talent<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    You may treat the attack with the spellstrike talent as a Focused Attack action, and thus the attack made with this may be combined with other effects that modify the Focused Attack action such as charging or making additional attack. When treating the spellstrike as a Focused Attack this uses the AP cost of the spell being cast as the base AP cost of this Focused Attack (before other adjustments such as charging). Spells with an AP cost less than 3, or that have their AP cost reduced, such as with quicken spell, below 3 cannot be treated as Focused Attacks with this feat.<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Anchoring Spellstrike (Magic)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Spellstrike meta talent, Anchored Spell, Base Attack Bonus +2, Base Casting Bonus +2<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    When using spellstrike to make a ranged attack with an arrow or crossbow bolt you may apply a single area of effect spell to it as part of spellstrike, treating the arrow as your spell anchor. If your attack fails to hit its target roll a d8 to determine where it lands adjacent to your intended target; if you successfully hit your spell does not automatically go off but you treat the creature’s square as the landing point of the arrow. Once the attack resolves the area of effect spell is automatically cast using the location of the arrow as the point of origin. Once the spell is cast the arrow reverts and is no longer a spell anchor unless you spend an additional spell point as part of this ability to make it a spell anchor with the usual duration.<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Armored Caster (Magic)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Proficiency in light or heavy armor; Casting<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    You gain the ability to cast while wearing light armor. You still automatically fail all casting in heavy armor. This feat only functions with armor you are proficient with; you still fail at casting when casting in armor you are not proficient with.<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Special</b>:    You may select this feat a second time, gaining the ability to cast in both light and heavy armor.<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Concurrent Concentration (Magic)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Casting, Base Casting Bonus +2<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    The AP required to concentrate on an ongoing spell is reduced by 1 (to a minimum of 1). Additionally, you may concentrate on more than one spell at a time.<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Defensive Caster (Magic)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Casting, Concentration 1 Rank<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    Before casting a spell defensively you may also choose to fight defensively, gaining the benefits and penalties of fighting defensively. You take the attack roll penalty from fighting defensively to your concentration skill check until the start of your next turn; but do not stop fighting defensively even if you do fail to cast defensively.<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Diagram Trap (Magic)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Diagram Casting, 5 SPB<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    A Diagram Caster may add a triggering condition to the diagram, such as “an enemy touches the diagram” or “a creature reads the runes”, causing the spell imbued within the diagram to be cast as if you activated the diagram manually. For situations such as "reads the runes" this does not bypass the normal range restrictions of the spell such as a creature needing to be within the diagram; thus a spellcaster should add conditions such as "reads the runes, and is within the diagram" The caster cannot trigger their set conditions for their own spell and must still spend an action to activate it manually.<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Elemental Superconductor (Magic)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Focused Element, Elemental Specialist<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    When you receive damage from a spell matching the affinity of your focused element, until the end of your next turn you gain +1 on save attack rolls using that element, treat any spell resistance as 5 lower when casting spells which use that elemental affinity, and add your BCB to any damage of that affinity’s associated damage type dealt by a spell that you cast (but no more than once per round to any target).<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Special</b>:    This effect does not trigger if the elemental damage you would take is prevented by Resist or Immunity, or was delayed damage that would have been taken in an earlier round.<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Ethereal Diagram (Magic)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Diagram Casting, 10 SPB, Ranged Diagram<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    A Diagram Caster may make a diagram in the air, rather than on a surface, but such a diagram is unstable and dissipates within 1 minute, and must be redrawn. The caster may attempt to hastily cast without first drawing a diagram, instead attempting to draw a diagram quickly within the air as part of casting, but doing so requires a Concentration check DC 22 + 2x the BCB of the spell; this is in addition to the usual Use Magic Device check required to create a diagram. Diagrams created in this way require a 5 AP action to create and may have the spell contained within immediately activated upon completion; though should the caster choose not to immediate activate it, the normal amount of time to activate the diagram is still required.</p>
<p dir="auto">A Diagram created in this way is treated as if it was created within the Diagram Caster's square, using them as the point of origin of any spells or effects relating to the diagram.<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Special</b>:    A diagram created within this feat is unaffected by the Lingering Diagram feat.<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Extra Magic Talent (Magic)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Casting<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    You may select an additional magic talent and gain it as a bonus talent. You must meet all the prerequisites of this talent to select it.<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Special</b>:    You may select this more than once, each time selecting a different magic talent.<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Extra Spell Point (Magic)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Spell Pool class feature.<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    Your spell pool total increases by 2.<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Special</b>:    A character may take this feat more than once. The effects stack.<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Hidden Diagram (Magic)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Diagram Casting<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    The Diagram Caster may double the final time required to create the diagram to obscure the magics and runes from being immediately noticeable. A diagram hidden in this way requires an opposed Perception check against the UMD check required to make it to spot it. This does not obscure the magics of a diagram from effects that allow detection of magic in an area.<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Irresistible Element (Magic)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Focused Element, Elemental Specialist<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    When casting a spell of your focused element’s affinity that matches your element’s associated damage, you are more capable at bypassing your target’s defenses. Treat any Resist as 1 lower per 5 BCB (minimum 1). This cannot reduce a creature’s Resist below 0.<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Lingering Diagram (Magic)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Diagram Casting, 8 SPB<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    A Diagram Caster may choose to allow their diagram to linger after it has been activated, leaving behind an inert diagram. The Diagram Caster may touch an inert Diagram as a 3 AP action to imbue a spell within the diagram again. It must be the same spell and talents as was previously within the diagram, and requires the Diagram Caster to pay an spell point costs again.</p>
<p dir="auto">An inert diagram still counts against the Diagram Caster's limit of diagrams and are destroyed as normal for a Diagram Caster creating diagrams beyond this limit.<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Magical Maneuver Mastery (Magic)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Casting, Maneuver Keyword Spell<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    You may use your SPB in place of your BCB for maneuver keyword spells for the purpose of determining your MSB; using your SPB in the place of BCB for determining your effective BAB for the maneuver. If your BCB is already equal to your SPB, you instead gain a +2 feat bonus to MSB with such spells; this has no effect on your normal MSB.<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Natural Spell (Magic)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Casting<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    You are considered to be holding your implement while polymorphed if your implement was merged into your new form as part of the polymorph. Additionally, your polymorphed form may substitute its own sounds for verbal spell components, even if it would not normally have a mouth. This effect only applies to polymorph spells cast by yourself.<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Ranged Diagram (Magic)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Diagram Casting<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    A Diagram caster may allow spells created from their diagram to affect creatures up to close range from their diagram rather than only within the area of the diagram. This does not alter, or exceed the range of the spell normally, meaning should a spell require touch, then they must be touching the diagram for it to work; while a long range spell would still be limited to close range from the diagram. You may use any square within the diagram as the point of origin, and may allow area of effect spells to affect an area outside of the diagram, as long as that is not beyond close range of the point of origin within the diagram.</p>
<p dir="auto">In addition a the Diagram Caster may activate their diagrams remotely from up to 10 feet away, plus an additional 5 feet per 5 SPB they possess.<br></p></span></p>