---
share: true
title: List of Combat Feats
---

Combat feats are a type of feat oriented primarily towards combat as the name implies, generally tending towards modifying attacks or improving damage in some degree. While not entirely devoid of utility these differ from martial feats due to their general increase in a creature's power when taken rather than a focus on utility.

<h3><span><p dir="auto">Balanced Flurry (Combat)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Base Attack Bonus +1, Agi 13, Weapon Finesse<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    You may treat weapons with the double special feature as if they had the finesse weapon special feature, but you take an additional -1 penalty on attack rolls when two-weapon fighting.<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Special</b>:    At Base Attack bonus +10 you no longer take the additional -1 penalty on attack rolls with double weapons.<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Big Game Hunter (Combat)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    You gain a +1 bonus on attack rolls and MSB, and a +2 bonus on damage rolls on creatures at least one size category larger than you. These bonuses increase by an additional 1 for every size category a creature is larger than you.<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Cleave (Combat)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Base Attack Bonus +1, Strength 13<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    As a 3 AP action, you can make a single attack against a foe within reach. If you hit, you deal damage normally and can make a bonus attack against another foe within reach; you can only make one extra attack in this way and it cannot be against the same target as the first. The bonus attack with this feat must be made with the same weapon as the first. When you perform a cleave you take a -2 penalty to AC until your next turn. You may take a Shift action, paying the AP cost as normal, as part of a cleave if this would bring a second target within range.<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Special</b>:    You may spend 1 stamina as a reaction to make a bonus attack against a third target.<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Cleave Through (Combat)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Cleave, Base Attack Bonus +6<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    Cleave may now be used as part of a Focused Attack, rather than its own action, making the first attack of the cleave as a normal Focused Attack with the bonus attack behaving as normal for a cleave. This extra attack is not treated as an additional attack for the purposes of determining the cumulative penalty from additional attacks.<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Critical Focus (Combat)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    Select a weapon in which you are proficient (including unarmed strikes and natural weapons). You treat a weapon as though its critical threat range was 19-20, and critical multiplier was x2. In addition, critical hits while making a focused attack deal additional damage equal to half your base attack bonus; this additional damage is not multiplied by the critical hit. At +10 base attack bonus the weapon’s critical threat range is treated as 18-20. Abilities such as honed that increase the critical threat range of a weapon are applied after these adjustments to the weapon’s critical threat range.<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Special</b>:    You may select this feat more than once, each time select a new weapon to apply this to.<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Double Slice (Combat)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    As part of a Focused attack when wielding a weapon in your main-hand and off-hand, you can make one attack that deals additional damage using both weapons at once. This attack is made at a -2 penalty. If the attack is successful, roll damage for the main hand weapon normally as if the weapon was wielded in two hands (including adjustments such as Power Stance or Strength modifier if they would normally apply); you then may also roll your off-hand weapon’s damage dice, adding the weapon abilities and enhancement bonus from your off-hand weapon. Additional effects and damage such as Power Stance, Sneak Attack, Rage, or other similar feats and abilities only apply once as this is still only a single attack. You must be capable of attacking the target with both your main-hand and off-hand weapons when using this ability (and thus, may sometimes not be able to use it if using a combination of ranged and melee weapons). The damage from the off-hand weapon is treated as additional damage and is not multiplied on a critical hit.<br><br>Using this feat forgoes the off-hand attack normally allowed when wielding two weapons as both weapons are being utilized for the single attack. The additional attacks made as part spending additional AP when making a Focused Attack may also benefit from this feat with the normal penalties for making additional attacks (as well as the additional -2 penalty for using Double Slice), although the main-hand attack for these attacks remain additional attacks and are not treated as a Focused Attack.<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Special</b>:    When using this feat you forgo the off-hand weapon attack normally allowed as part of making a focused attack to instead combine this with your main-hand attack. Effects that grant you bonus attacks are not subject to this feat and are made separate from this feat.<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Dual Twirl (Combat)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    When wielding a double weapon and making a focused attack, or an additional attack as part of a focused attack, with your main-hand the you may forgo the usual off-hand attack to instead make a single bonus attack against a different creature using the off-hand of the double-weapon, using the same bonuses and penalties of the main-hand attack, including any cumulative penalties from additional attacks.<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Feral Combat Enhnacement (Combat)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    Any effects that apply an enhancement bonus or special abilities to an unarmed strike or natural weapon also apply to all unarmed strikes and natural weapons you possess.<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Feral Combat Training (Combat)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Feral Child<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    The damage die of your unarmed strikes or natural weapons increase by 1 step. Additionally, your unarmed strikes may deal Bludgeoning, Piercing, or Slashing damage.<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Special</b>:    When using an unarmed strike or natural weapon as part of a Sunder maneuver to sunder natural armor you may spend 1 stamina to cause the target to take bleed damage equal to your weapon’s damage dice.<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Finesse Training (Combat)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Weapon Finesse (Minor Perk), Base Attack Bonus +2<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    When using Agility to hit and Strength to damage with a melee weapon, you may add half your Base Attack Bonus to all damage rolls you make with that weapon.<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Forceful Stride (Combat)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Improved Unarmed Strike<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    As a 2 AP action, you may move up to half your speed and make an attack with an unarmed strike. If successful, instead of the normal damage, you deal damage equal to ½ your Base Attack Bonus plus your Strength modifier.<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Special</b>:    If you have the Stamina feature, you may spend one stamina to move up to your speed rather than half your speed as part of this ability.<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Giant's Grip (Combat)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    Str 16, Base Attack Bonus +6<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Special</b>:    You may wield weapons sized for a creature one size category above your own without increasing the number of hands required to wield it, you still take the -2 penalty to attack rolls for wielding a weapon inappropriately sized for your character. In addition you may wield two-handed weapons appropriately sized for you in one hand at a -2 penalty (this is in addition to any penalties you would receive from two-weapon fighting).<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Gun Kata (Combat)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Unarmed Strike Proficiency, Base Attack Bonus +1<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    When making a melee attack with a held trigger keyword weapon, you may treat it as an attack with an unarmed strike rather than an improvised weapon. Attacks with a trigger weapon used in this way deal damage as an unarmed strike. Once per round, you may spend a Reaction when you successfully hit with a melee attack with a trigger weapon to make a bonus ranged attack with the trigger weapon at a -5 penalty.<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Heavy Blow (Combat)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Unarmed Strike Proficiency or possesses a natural weapon<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    If performing a focused attack with an unarmed strike or natural weapon you may add an additional ½ of your Strength bonus on the damage roll rather than just your Strength bonus. This bonus only applies to the Focused Attack and not any additional attacks made as part of it.<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Special</b>:    If you have this feat and are using the Double Slice feat with only unarmed strikes and/or natural weapons, you may instead add your Strength bonus on the damage roll rather than ½  your Strength bonus when using this feat.<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Iaijutsu Strike (Combat)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Quick Draw<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    As a 3 AP action, you may make a single melee attack with a sheathed weapon which deals an additional 1d4 precision damage. The precision damage increases by an additional 1d4 for every 4 points of Base Attack Bonus you possess. By spending an additional 1 AP, you may improve the additional precision damage die by one step (1d4 to 1d6, 1d6 to 1d8, 1d8 to 1d10, etc.).<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Iaijutusu, Impossible Focus (Combat)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Iaijutsu Strike, Iaijutsu Focus, Stamina, Base Attack Bonus +14<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    Once per round when you use Iaijutsu Strike, you may spend a Reaction to roll your attack roll twice and take the better result. In addition, if you score a critical and have the ability to spend stamina, you may spend 1 stamina as a Reaction to increase the critical multiplier of your weapon by 1 (x2 becomes x3, etc.); you may not spend more Reactions or stamina to further increase your critical multiplier.<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Special</b>:    If you are in precision stance and have the Deadly Precision feat, you may roll your attack roll three times and take the best result rather than twice when using this feat.<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Iajutsu Focus (Combat)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Iaijutsu Strike, Base Attack Bonus +10<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    You may treat Iaijutsu Strike as a Focused Attack.<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Special</b>:    If Iaijutsu Strike is used as part of a Charge action, you may spend 1 stamina to make the attack and continue the remainder of your charge’s movement past the target. If you successfully hit the target, this movement does not provoke an attack of opportunity from the target.<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Impaling Grab (Combat)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Base Attack Bonus +1<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    You treat any melee weapon that deals piercing damage as if it had the grapple feature. When grappling a foe with a piercing weapon, the foe receives 1 bleed and you receive a +2 bonus to MSB to maintain the grapple. This bleed cannot be removed until the grapple has ended, and if healed immediately returns when the grapple is next successfully maintained with the weapon.<br><br>At +5 BAB, when the grapple is ended the foe takes bleed damage equal to the weapon’s base damage die; this does not stack with and instead overwrites the bleed caused by initiating the grapple with this feat.<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Special</b>:    If you have proficiency in unarmed strikes you may deal piercing damage with your unarmed strikes.<br><br>You may spend 1 stamina as a 3 AP action to make a single attack at a -2 penalty, if the attack is successful you may immediately attempt to initiate a grapple.<br><br>If you also possess the Grab feat, when using a weapon with the grapple feature you treat the damage die of your weapon as 1 size category larger when determining the damage you deal when maintaining the grapple, as well as the damage dealt by this feat when the grapple ends.<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Improved Critical (Combat)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Foc 13, Steel Mind, Base Attack Bonus +8<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    Choose a weapon with which you are proficient (including unarmed strikes and natural weapons), the critical threat range of that weapon is increased by 1 (20 becomes 19-20, 19-20 becomes 18-20 etc).<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Special</b>:    You may select this feat more than once, each time selecting a different type of weapon.<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Improved Natural Weapon (Combat)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Possess a natural weapon<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    Select a type of natural weapon (such as bite or claws), your damage with that type of natural weapon improves by 1 step.<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Special</b>:    You may select this feat more than once, each time selecting a different type of natural weapon.<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Improved Unarmed Strike (Combat)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Proficiency in unarmed strikes<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    Your unarmed strike damage improves by 1 step (usually from 1d4 to 1d6 if medium). In addition, your unarmed strikes gain the nonlethal weapon feature and may deal lethal or nonlethal damage.<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Improvised Mastery (Combat)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Improvised Coordination<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    You increase the damage die of any improvised weapon you wield by 2 steps. In addition, when using a weapon in an improvised manner (such as using a bow as a melee weapon) you may apply any enhancement bonuses, weapon special features, and weapon special abilities that it possesses to your attack and damage rolls as long as they’re valid (such as special abilities or features that can only apply to ranged attacks would not apply with a melee attack, but might apply when thrown).<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Mixed Volley (Combat)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    When you deal damage with a ranged attack, you gain a +4 circumstance bonus on the next melee attack roll you make against that opponent. This attack must occur before the end of your next turn, and this bonus cannot occur more than once per round. This bonus does not apply to the same weapon used to make the ranged attack roll (such as a thrown weapon that may also be used for melee attacks), though may apply to different ends of a combination weapon.<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Mug (Combat)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Base Attack Bonus +4<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    As a 3 AP action you may make a single melee attack. If successful, you may then attempt a Dirty Trick or Disarm maneuver as a Reaction. If the attack would have been a critical hit, you may forgo the critical hit to instead grant yourself a +4 bonus to your MSB for that maneuver.<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Special</b>:    You may spend 1 stamina to use this ability as part of a Focused Attack.<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Multiattack (Combat)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Prerequisite</b>:    3 or more natural weapons, Two-Weapon Fighting<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    When making a Focused Attack with two-weapon fighting you may choose to take a -2 penalty on all attacks you make for the remainder of the round; if you do you may select a natural weapon you have not yet made an attack with this turn; you may make a bonus attack with this weapon at a -5 penalty.<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Special</b>:    If you have Improved Two-Weapon Fighting and 4 natural weapons you may select an additional natural weapon you have yet to make an attack with and make a bonus attack at a -10 penalty with that weapon.<br><br>If you have Greater Two-Weapon Fighting and 5 natural weapons you may select an additional natural weapon you have yet to make an attack with and make a bonus attack at a -15 penalty with that weapon.<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Rapid Shot (Combat)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Agi 13<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    When making a Focused Attack with a ranged weapon, you can make a bonus attack with that weapon. All of your attack rolls take a –2 penalty until the start of your next turn when using Rapid Shot.<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Special</b>:    You may spend 1 stamina as part of using this feat to reduce the penalty from this feat to 0 until the start of your next turn.<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Reactive Charge (Combat)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    You may ready a Focused Attack with a charge as a 4 AP action. You cannot add additional attacks or other effects that would adjust the AP cost of the focused attack action.<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Reactive Combatant (Combat)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Quick Draw<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    If you have a stowed weapon you may still treat the spaces around you as threatened spaces as if you had the weapon drawn. If an opponent provokes an attack of opportunity from you, you may draw your weapon as part of the attack. After the attack resolves, you may sheath your weapon as a Reaction.<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Special</b>:    You may sheath your weapon as a free action once per round on your turn.<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Riposte (Combat)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Parry, Base Attack Bonus +6<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    Each time you successfully parry an attack using the parry feat, the originating foe provokes an attack of opportunity from you. You gain a +1 bonus to the attack roll made as part of this attack of opportunity, improving by an additional 1 for each degree of success you exceed their attack roll with your parry.<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Special</b>:    You may spend 1 stamina once per round for every 6 base attack bonus you possess to make this attack of opportunity without spending a reaction.<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Riposte, Disarming (Combat)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Riposte, Base Attack Bonus +11<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    When you successfully disarm a foe using the attack of opportunity granted by a riposte, you may immediately make a single attack with the disarmed weapon against that foe so long as the weapon can be wielded by you in one hand. You must have a free hand to use this disarmed weapon to use this ability.<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Sling Grenadier (Combat)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Rapid Reload, Base Attack Bonus +4<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    You may load alchemical splash weapons into Sling keyword weapons, instead of their usual ammunition. If you hit with a sling in this way you deal damage as normal for a sling, plus any effects or damage that would be normally caused by throwing the splash weapon. A miss with the sling is treated as normal for missing with a thrown splash weapon and must roll to determine where it lands.<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Stance Mastery (Combat)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Any three stance feats, Base Attack Bonus +8<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    You may spend a Reaction each round at the beginning of your turn to maintain a second stance. You may maintain further stances but the number of Reactions required each round doubles for each stance beyond the second (3 stances would require 2 Reactions per round, 4 stances would require 4 Reactions per round, 5 stances would require 8 Reactions per round, and so on). If you do not have enough Reactions or fail to spend the Reaction, all additional stances immediately end.<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Special</b>:    You may spend 1 stamina or 1 AP in place of a Reaction required to maintain this ability.<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Three-Weapon Fighting (Combat)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Double Slice, Base Attack bonus +8; Unusual Grip or more than two hands.<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    When wielding three light or one-handed weapons (with the assistance of Unusual Grip or an additional limb)and using Double Slice, you may increase the AP cost of making a Focused Attack with Double Slice by 1 to include your third weapon additional damage in the same way that a second weapon is included when using Double Slice normally. If making additional attacks with Double Slice, you may include this third weapon on those attacks as well.<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Titan's Grip (Combat)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Str 18, Giant’s Grip, Base Attack Bonus +16<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    You may wield weapons sized for a creature two size categories above your own without increasing the number of hands required to wield it. You reduce the penalties by half for wielding an inappropriately sized weapon and a two-handed weapon in one hand.<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Two-Weapon Fighting (Combat)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Base Attack bonus +2<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    You reduce the cumulative penalties from additional attacks on the first off-hand attack you make each round by 4 (minimum 0). If the weapon is light this will reduce the penalty to 0 for the first attack, or -1 if the weapon is not light.<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Two-Weapon Fighting, Greater (Combat)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Two-Weapon Fighting, Improved Two-Weapon Fighting, Base Attack Bonus +14<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    You reduce the cumulative penalties from additional attacks on the third off-hand attack you make each round by 4 (minimum 0).<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Two-Weapon Fighting, Improved (Combat)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Two-Weapon Fighting, Base Attack Bonus +8<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    You reduce the cumulative penalties from additional attacks on the second off-hand attack you make each round by 4 (minimum 0).<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Two-Weapon Opportunity (Combat)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Two-Weapon Fighting<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    Once per round when you make an attack of opportunity, you can make a bonus attack with your off-hand weapon at a -2 penalty.<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Vital Strike (Combat)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Base attack bonus +1.<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    You may spend 3 AP to make a Vital Strike attack. Make a single attack against a foe, if successful you may roll the weapon’s damage dice an additional time adding it to the total damage dealt by the attack. For each additional AP you spend, you may add the weapon’s damage dice an additional time. Additional damage modifiers or other dice are not added an additional time. These extra weapon damage dice are not multiplied on a critical hit, but are added to the total. The choice to spend the additional AP must be done as part of making the Vital Strike.<br><br>At +5 BAB you may automatically turn all 1s rolled by the weapon damage dice into 2s.<br><br>At +10 BAB, you improve the damage of Vital Strike and may add your weapon damage dice an additional time (increasing from 2x dice to 3x dice) plus an additional per additional AP spent (increasing from 1 per AP to 2 per AP).<br><br>At +15 BAB, you may choose a number of damage dice rolled as part of Vital Strike equal to your Focus modifier (minimum 1) before rolling. You may roll the selected dice twice and take the better result for each.<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Vital Strike, Charging (Combat)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Vital Strike, Base Attack Bonus +3<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    You may perform a Charge when using Vital Strike even though it is not a Focused Attack. You must pay the AP cost increase (as would be normal to charge during a Focused Attack) to perform the charge, allowing you to perform the Vital Strike at the end of the charge instead of the usual Focused Attack.<br></p></span></p>