---
fileClass:
  - Spell
keyword: Enchantment, Mental
prerequisite: Fire(Essence) Affinity or Void(Air-Anima) Affinity (See Text)
share: true
title: Alter Light
tags:
  - Spell
  - Fire-Affinity-Spell
  - Void-Affinity-Spell
target: Radius (10 feet + 5 feet per two BCB)
duration: Concentration or 1 Minute per BCB (see description).
range: Close
action: 4 AP
saving_throw: None
spell_resistance: No
description: You create a sphere centered anywhere within the range of the spell. Alter light radiates from a central point adjusting the light level depending on the Light Type talent applied to it. You may concentrate on the spell to maintain it, or spend 1 spell point to allow the spell to continue without concentration for 1 minute per BCB.
Special: When you gain this spell, if you don’t already have one, select a single light type talent that you qualify for (if you do not qualify for any light type talents you cannot select this spell). For the purposes of prepared casters this spell does not take a slot to prepare, but also cannot be used without a light type talent prepared, light type talents take up slots as normal.
---

<p><span dir="ltr" style="overflow-x: auto;"><table><tbody><tr><th dir="ltr">Keyword</th><td dir="ltr">Enchantment, Mental</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Prerequisite</th><td dir="ltr">Fire(Essence) Affinity or Void(Air-Anima) Affinity (See Text)</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Target</th><td dir="ltr">Radius (10 feet + 5 feet per two BCB)</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Duration</th><td dir="ltr">Concentration or 1 Minute per BCB (see description).</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Range</th><td dir="ltr">Close</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Action</th><td dir="ltr">4 AP</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Saving throw</th><td dir="ltr">None</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Spell resistance</th><td dir="ltr">No</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Description</th><td dir="ltr">You create a sphere centered anywhere within the range of the spell. Alter light radiates from a central point adjusting the light level depending on the Light Type talent applied to it. You may concentrate on the spell to maintain it, or spend 1 spell point to allow the spell to continue without concentration for 1 minute per BCB.</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Special</th><td dir="ltr">When you gain this spell, if you don’t already have one, select a single light type talent that you qualify for (if you do not qualify for any light type talents you cannot select this spell). For the purposes of prepared casters this spell does not take a slot to prepare, but also cannot be used without a light type talent prepared, light type talents take up slots as normal.</td></tr></tbody></table></span></p><span><span><hr></span></span><h1><span><p dir="auto">General Alter Light Talents</p></span></h1><span><span><hr></span></span><h2><span><p dir="auto">Enduring Alter Light</p></span></h2><p><span dir="ltr" style="overflow-x: auto;"><table><tbody><tr><th dir="ltr">Prerequisite</th><td dir="ltr">Alter Light</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Spell</th><td dir="ltr">Alter Light</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Benefit</th><td dir="ltr">You may choose to allow an alter light effect you are concentrating to last an additional two rounds after you cease maintaining it. In addition, when spending a spell point to allow alter light to continue without concentration, you may spend an additional spell point to allow the effect to last for 10 minutes per BCB.</td></tr></tbody></table></span></p><h2><span><p dir="auto">Greater Alter Light</p></span></h2><p><span dir="ltr" style="overflow-x: auto;"><table><tbody><tr><th dir="ltr">Prerequisite</th><td dir="ltr">Alter Light, BCB 4th</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Spell</th><td dir="ltr">Alter Light</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Benefit</th><td dir="ltr">You may spend an additional spell point when creating alter light to increase the radius up to 20 + 5 feet per BCB.</td></tr></tbody></table></span></p><h2><span><p dir="auto">Intense Alter Light</p></span></h2><p><span dir="ltr" style="overflow-x: auto;"><table><tbody><tr><th dir="ltr">Prerequisite</th><td dir="ltr">Alter Light, at least two Improved Daylight or Darkness Talents</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Spell</th><td dir="ltr">Alter Light</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Benefit</th><td dir="ltr">You may spend an additional spell point when casting alter light to apply two Improved Daylight or Improved Darkness talents to it instead of the usual limit of one. This spell point cost is in addition to any other cost incurred by the chosen Improved Daylight talents. This does not allow you to apply daylight talents to an area of darkness nor may you apply darkness talents to an area of daylight.</td></tr></tbody></table></span></p><h2><span><p dir="auto">Mobile Illumination</p></span></h2><p><span dir="ltr" style="overflow-x: auto;"><table><tbody><tr><th dir="ltr">Prerequisite</th><td dir="ltr">Alter Light</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Spell</th><td dir="ltr">Alter Light</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Saving throw</th><td dir="ltr">Mental (Negates) (See Text)</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Benefit</th><td dir="ltr">You may move your areas of alter light up to 25 feet + 5 feet per 2 BCB up to the maximum range of the Alter Light spell. You may do so as part of maintaining the spell each turn or as a 2 AP action.
Alternatively, you may center an area of alter light on a creature or item adjusting the spell to a burst effect rather than an area, causing it to move with them. This is subject to spell resistance, and if unwilling the target creature may choose to attempt a Mental save to end the effect, and again each round at the end of its turn; a successful save ends this effect immediately. This is still limited to the maximum range of the spell should the distance between you and the targeted creature exceed the maximum range of Alter Light the spell immediately ends.</td></tr></tbody></table></span></p><span><span><hr></span></span><h1><span><p dir="auto">Improved Darkness Talents</p></span></h1><span><span><hr></span></span><h2><span><p dir="auto">Deadly Darkness</p></span></h2><p><span dir="ltr" style="overflow-x: auto;"><table><tbody><tr><th dir="ltr">Prerequisite</th><td dir="ltr">Alter Light, Darkness</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Spell</th><td dir="ltr">Alter Light</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Saving throw</th><td dir="ltr">Physical(Agi)</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Benefit</th><td dir="ltr">You learn to create a darkness that cuts at creatures within. Creatures inside the area of darkness must make a Physical(Agi) save at the end of your turns or take 1d6 slashing damage per 3 BCB (minimum 1d6). If a creature enters this area of darkness after it is created, they must immediately save or also suffer this damage. A creature may only be affected by this talent once per round. You may spend 1 spell point as part of casting this ability to change the damage from this talent from slashing to dark damage.</td></tr></tbody></table></span></p><h2><span><p dir="auto">Fearful Darkness</p></span></h2><p><span dir="ltr" style="overflow-x: auto;"><table><tbody><tr><th dir="ltr">Prerequisite</th><td dir="ltr">Alter Light, Darkness</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Spell</th><td dir="ltr">Alter Light</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Keyword</th><td dir="ltr">Fear, Mental</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Saving throw</th><td dir="ltr">Mental</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Benefit</th><td dir="ltr">You can create a darkness effect that erodes the resolve of those who enter it. You make a Mental save attack against creatures within this area of darkness. A successful save attack causes creatures to become shaken and remain shaken for 1d4 rounds after leaving the area of darkness. If any creature enters this area of darkness, they must immediately save against your save attack or suffer this penalty. If you succeed by two degrees of success the creature is instead frightened instead of shaken for the same duration.</td></tr></tbody></table></span></p><h2><span><p dir="auto">Hungry Darkness</p></span></h2><p><span dir="ltr" style="overflow-x: auto;"><table><tbody><tr><th dir="ltr">Prerequisite</th><td dir="ltr">Alter Light, Darkness</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Spell</th><td dir="ltr">Alter Light</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Saving throw</th><td dir="ltr">Resilience(End)</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Benefit</th><td dir="ltr">You can create a darkness effect that gnaws away at creatures within. You make a Resilience(End) save attack against creatures within this area of darkness. A success causes creatures within to take 1 point of Strength, Agility, Endurance, or Focus damage (chosen at the time of casting the spell); this damage increases by 1 for every 10 BCB you possess. If you succeed by two degrees of success creatures within take an additional 1d4 ability damage for the chosen ability of this spell.  If any creature enters this area of darkness, they must immediately save against your save attack or suffer this damage.</td></tr></tbody></table></span></p><h2><span><p dir="auto">Looming Darkness</p></span></h2><p><span dir="ltr" style="overflow-x: auto;"><table><tbody><tr><th dir="ltr">Prerequisite</th><td dir="ltr">Alter Light, Darkness</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Spell</th><td dir="ltr">Alter Light</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Keyword</th><td dir="ltr">Fear, Mental</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Saving throw</th><td dir="ltr">Mental</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Benefit</th><td dir="ltr">You can create a darkness effect that erodes the resolve of those who enter it. You make a Mental save attack against creatures within this area of darkness. A success causes creatures to suffer a -1 penalty to all saving throws so long as they remain within this area of darkness. This penalty increases by 1 per 5 BCB. If any creature enters this area of darkness, they must immediately save against your save attack or suffer this penalty.</td></tr></tbody></table></span></p><h2><span><p dir="auto">Thick Darkness</p></span></h2><p><span dir="ltr" style="overflow-x: auto;"><table><tbody><tr><th dir="ltr">Prerequisite</th><td dir="ltr">Alter Light, Darkness</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Spell</th><td dir="ltr">Alter Light</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Benefit</th><td dir="ltr">You may spend a spell point to create a darkness with substance that becomes difficult to move through. Creatures within the area treat this as difficult terrain, even if they would be traveling through other means such as flying, and suffer a -1 penalty to all weapon attacks and damage rolls made within or that pass through this area; this penalty increases by an additional -1 per 10 BCB. Objects that fall within this area are slowed so that each 10 feet of darkness treats the fall as 5 feet shorter for the purposes of damage.</td></tr></tbody></table></span></p><span><span><hr></span></span><h1><span><p dir="auto">Improved Daylight Talents</p></span></h1><span><span><hr></span></span><h2><span><p dir="auto">Blinding Light</p></span></h2><p><span dir="ltr" style="overflow-x: auto;"><table><tbody><tr><th dir="ltr">Prerequisite</th><td dir="ltr">Alter Light, Daylight, BCB 8th</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Spell</th><td dir="ltr">Alter Light</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Saving throw</th><td dir="ltr">Resilience(End) Save(see text)</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Benefit</th><td dir="ltr">You may spend 2 spell points to cause your daylight to blind creatures within its area. When creating an area of daylight, make a single Resilience(End) save attack against all creatures within. On a success, creatures within are blinded for 1d4+1 rounds. On two degrees of success or higher the creatures within are permanently blinded. Failures by less than one degree are blinded for 1 round. Creatures entering the area after the spell is cast may choose to close/avert their eyes upon entering, but are subject to the saving throw if they open their eyes while within the area of daylight.</td></tr></tbody></table></span></p><h2><span><p dir="auto">Searing Light</p></span></h2><p><span dir="ltr" style="overflow-x: auto;"><table><tbody><tr><th dir="ltr">Prerequisite</th><td dir="ltr">Alter Light, Daylight</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Spell</th><td dir="ltr">Alter Light</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Saving throw</th><td dir="ltr">Physical(Agi)</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Benefit</th><td dir="ltr"> You may spend a spell point to cause your light to shine with such intensity it begins to burn creatures within. Creatures within the area of your daylight take 2 points of light damage per BCB.</td></tr></tbody></table></span></p><span><span><hr></span></span><h1><span><p dir="auto">Light Type Talents</p></span></h1><span><span><hr></span></span><h2><span><p dir="auto">Darkness</p></span></h2><p><span dir="ltr" style="overflow-x: auto;"><table><tbody><tr><th dir="ltr">Prerequisite</th><td dir="ltr">Alter Light, Void(Air-Anima) Affinity</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Spell</th><td dir="ltr">Alter Light</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Keyword</th><td dir="ltr">Dark</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Benefit</th><td dir="ltr"> You create a sphere of darkness centered anywhere within the range of the spell. Darkness radiates from a central point reducing the light level with bright becoming dim light, and normal &amp; dim becoming darkness. Sources of normal light only produce dim light within a 5 foot radius, and sources of dim light disappear. Multiple castings of darkness do not stack for further reducing the light level of a location.</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Special</th><td dir="ltr">You may apply a single Improved Darkness talent at the time of casting Alter Light using the Darkness Light Type talent. Multiple castings may overlap for areas of darkness created for the purposes of these talents, though multiple castings of darkness do not stack for further reducing the light level of a location.</td></tr></tbody></table></span></p><h2><span><p dir="auto">Daylight</p></span></h2><p><span dir="ltr" style="overflow-x: auto;"><table><tbody><tr><th dir="ltr">Prerequisite</th><td dir="ltr">Alter Light, Fire(Essence) Affinity</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Spell</th><td dir="ltr">Alter Light</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Keyword</th><td dir="ltr">Light</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Benefit</th><td dir="ltr">You create a sphere of light centered anywhere within the range of the spell. Daylight radiates from a central point increasing the light level with normal becoming bright light, and dark &amp; dim becoming normal. Multiple castings of darkness do not stack for further reducing the light level of a location.</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Special</th><td dir="ltr">You may apply a single Improved Daylight talent at the time of casting Alter Light using the Daylight Light Type talent. Multiple castings may overlap for areas of darkness created for the purposes of these talents, though multiple castings of darkness do not stack for further reducing the light level of a location.</td></tr></tbody></table></span></p>
