---
fileClass:
  - Spell
keyword: Evocation
prerequisite: Fire(Essence) Affinity
share: true
title: Alter Flame
tags:
  - Spell
  - Fire-Affinity-Spell
target: One Flame (See Text)
duration: (See Text)
range: Close
action: 4 AP
saving_throw: None
spell_resistance: No
description: "You may begin to concentrate on an ongoing flame within close range. You may affect a flame of medium size category or lower. You may spend a spell point to instead allow the spell to continue without concentration for 1 round per BCB; and does not allow the caster to change what flame they are currently altering.\r\rAs part of casting the spell you may determine what action you wish to take on the flame. If the caster is concentrating on the spell they can choose one of the following actions to perform as part of concentrating. If allowing the spell to continue without concentration you must instead spend 3 AP each round on the following actions.\r\r- Move: You may force the flame to begin to move through the air; otherwise the flame remains within the last moved location. Once the spell ends, if the fire does not have a valid surface or fuel to continue burning, the flame is immediately extinguished. Creatures that come in contact with the flame take damage at the start of their turn appropriate for the size of the fire (see mundane fire rules). You may move a flame up to 10 feet + 5 feet per 2 BCB.\r- Grow/Shrink: You can cause the flame to grow or shrink by one size category per 4 BCB. The maximum size you can grow the flame is medium. Once the spell ends the fire will return to its normal size, though this may cause the flame to devour the fuel it was burning on faster during the time it was grown. If a flame would be shrunk below the size of Fine it is instead immediately extinguished. Growing or shrinking a flame requires a 3 AP action.\r\rThis spell can only affect mundane (non-magical) fires, not fire sustained by magical effects, or fires being affected by other casts of Alter Flame."
---

<p><span><table><tbody><tr><th>Keyword</th><td>Evocation</td></tr><tr><th>Prerequisite</th><td>Fire(Essence) Affinity</td></tr><tr><th>Target</th><td>One Flame (See Text)</td></tr><tr><th>Duration</th><td>(See Text)</td></tr><tr><th>Range</th><td>Close</td></tr><tr><th>Action</th><td>4 AP</td></tr><tr><th>Saving throw</th><td>None</td></tr><tr><th>Spell resistance</th><td>No</td></tr><tr><th>Description</th><td>You may begin to concentrate on an ongoing flame within close range. You may affect a flame of medium size category or lower. You may spend a spell point to instead allow the spell to continue without concentration for 1 round per BCB; and does not allow the caster to change what flame they are currently altering.
<p dir="auto">As part of casting the spell you may determine what action you wish to take on the flame. If the caster is concentrating on the spell they can choose one of the following actions to perform as part of concentrating. If allowing the spell to continue without concentration you must instead spend 3 AP each round on the following actions.</p>
<ul>
<li dir="auto">Move: You may force the flame to begin to move through the air; otherwise the flame remains within the last moved location. Once the spell ends, if the fire does not have a valid surface or fuel to continue burning, the flame is immediately extinguished. Creatures that come in contact with the flame take damage at the start of their turn appropriate for the size of the fire (see mundane fire rules). You may move a flame up to 10 feet + 5 feet per 2 BCB.</li>
<li dir="auto">Grow/Shrink: You can cause the flame to grow or shrink by one size category per 4 BCB. The maximum size you can grow the flame is medium. Once the spell ends the fire will return to its normal size, though this may cause the flame to devour the fuel it was burning on faster during the time it was grown. If a flame would be shrunk below the size of Fine it is instead immediately extinguished. Growing or shrinking a flame requires a 3 AP action.</li>
</ul>
<p dir="auto">This spell can only affect mundane (non-magical) fires, not fire sustained by magical effects, or fires being affected by other casts of Alter Flame.</p></td></tr></tbody></table><p dir="auto"></p></span></p><span><span><hr></span></span><h1><span><p dir="auto">General Alter Flame Talents</p></span></h1><span><span><hr></span></span><h2><span><p dir="auto">Compact Flame</p></span></h2><p><span dir="ltr" style="overflow-x: auto;"><table><tbody><tr><th dir="ltr">Prerequisite</th><td dir="ltr">Alter Flame, BCB 2nd</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Spell</th><td dir="ltr">Alter Flame</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Benefit</th><td dir="ltr">When growing a flame you may choose to limit its actual size, only increasing the flame in intensity. The flame may be physically grown/shrunk to any size you may maintain, but may also deal damage as a flame of up to your maximum flame size. When the alter flame spell ends the fire immediately is restored to a fire of a size appropriate to its intensity (as such a medium flame with an intensity of a huge flame would immediately grow to huge size when the spell ends).</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Special</th><td dir="ltr">If you possess the explosive growth talent, when you control over the spell ends the creatures within the area of the flame’s true size are subject to a Physical(Agi) save attack as if you had chosen to grow the flame to that area using the explosive growth talent.</td></tr></tbody></table></span></p><h2><span><p dir="auto">Complex Alter Flame</p></span></h2><p><span dir="ltr" style="overflow-x: auto;"><table><tbody><tr><th dir="ltr">Prerequisite</th><td dir="ltr">Alter Flame, BCB 4th</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Spell</th><td dir="ltr">Alter Flame</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Benefit</th><td dir="ltr">You may spend a spell point when casting Alter Flame allowing you to increase the action from 3 AP to 4 AP each round to allow yourself to both Grow/Shrink the flame and move it as part of the same action.</td></tr></tbody></table></span></p><h2><span><p dir="auto">Explosive Growth</p></span></h2><p><span dir="ltr" style="overflow-x: auto;"><table><tbody><tr><th dir="ltr">Prerequisite</th><td dir="ltr">Alter Flame</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Saving throw</th><td dir="ltr">Physical(Agi) half</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Spell</th><td dir="ltr">Alter Flame</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Benefit</th><td dir="ltr">You may spend a spell point as part of growing a flame with the alter flame spell to cause the growth to become volatile. As part of the action of growing all creatures adjacent to the area of flame are subject to a Physical(Agi) save attack. A successful save attack deals damage equal to the size of the flame that it would reach from the grow action; a failed save attack deals half damage.</td></tr></tbody></table></span></p><h2><span><p dir="auto">Flame Lash</p></span></h2><p><span><table><tbody><tr><th>Prerequisite</th><td>Alter Flame, BCB 3rd</td></tr><tr><th>Spell</th><td>Alter Flame</td></tr><tr><th>Benefit</th><td>You may spend an spell points as part of casting alter flame to allow you to perform a new action with alter flame, allowing you to cause a flame to reach out with tendrils and strike creatures. As a 3 AP action you may cause a flame affected by alter flame to attack a creature making a touch attack against the creature using your BCB as the flame’s BAB and your CAM as its strength modifier. Creatures touched by the flame take damage appropriate to the flame’s size. The reach of these tendrils is 5 feet plus an additional 5 feet per 5 BCB.
<p dir="auto">If you spend an additional spell point as part of casting alter flame when using this talent; the flame gains an additional tendril for every 5 BCB you possess and may make an additional touch attack as part of the same action for 1 additional AP per additional touch attack made, though each tendril must target a different creature and deals no additional damage for targeting the same creature with multiple tendrils as part of the same attack.</p></td></tr></tbody></table><p dir="auto"></p></span></p><h2><span><p dir="auto">Improved Alter Flame</p></span></h2><p><span dir="ltr" style="overflow-x: auto;"><table><tbody><tr><th dir="ltr">Prerequisite</th><td dir="ltr">Alter Flame, Flame Lash, BCB 4th</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Spell</th><td dir="ltr">Alter Flame</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Benefit</th><td dir="ltr">You may spend an additional spell point to cause your spell to allow your alter flame to grow a fire an additional size category above medium. For every 4 BCB after 4th the maximum size of flames grown with alter flame increases by an additional size category, to a maximum of colossal. In addition you may affect a flame of a size equal or lower than the maximum size you may grow your flame when using the improved alter flame talent.</td></tr></tbody></table></span></p><h2><span><p dir="auto">Swift Flame Lash</p></span></h2><p><span dir="ltr" style="overflow-x: auto;"><table><tbody><tr><th dir="ltr">Prerequisite</th><td dir="ltr">Alter Flame, Flame Lash, BCB 10th</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Spell</th><td dir="ltr">Alter Flame</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Benefit</th><td dir="ltr">The AP cost of using the Flame Lash talent is reduced to 2 AP; and Flame Lash now deals an additional 1d6 fire damage per 10 BCB due to the speed and force at which it strikes creatures.</td></tr></tbody></table></span></p>