---
fileClass:
  - Spell
keyword: Blight
prerequisite: Decay(Nature-Anima) Affinity
share: true
title: Blight Touch
tags:
  - Spell
  - Decay-Affinity-Spell
target: One creature
duration: 1 round per BCB (see description)
range: Touch
action: 4 AP
saving_throw: Resilience(End) negates
spell_resistance: Yes
description: Your touch carries the lightest amount of the blight, attacking the constitution of the creature. A successful save attack causes the creature to become sickened for the duration of the spell; if you succeed by 2 degrees or more the target is instead nauseated for 1d4 rounds and sickened for the usual duration of the spell. You may spend one spell point to increase the duration of the spell to 1 minute per BCB.
---

<p><span dir="ltr" style="overflow-x: auto;"><table><tbody><tr><th dir="ltr">Keyword</th><td dir="ltr">Blight</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Prerequisite</th><td dir="ltr">Decay(Nature-Anima) Affinity</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Target</th><td dir="ltr">One creature</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Duration</th><td dir="ltr">1 round per BCB (see description)</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Range</th><td dir="ltr">Touch</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Action</th><td dir="ltr">4 AP</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Saving throw</th><td dir="ltr">Resilience(End) negates</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Spell resistance</th><td dir="ltr">Yes</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Description</th><td dir="ltr">Your touch carries the lightest amount of the blight, attacking the constitution of the creature. A successful save attack causes the creature to become sickened for the duration of the spell; if you succeed by 2 degrees or more the target is instead nauseated for 1d4 rounds and sickened for the usual duration of the spell. You may spend one spell point to increase the duration of the spell to 1 minute per BCB.</td></tr></tbody></table></span></p><span><span><hr></span></span><h1><span><p dir="auto">General Blight Touch Talents</p></span></h1><span><span><hr></span></span><h2><span><p dir="auto">Blight Ray</p></span></h2><p><span dir="ltr" style="overflow-x: auto;"><table><tbody><tr><th dir="ltr">Prerequisite</th><td dir="ltr">Blight Touch</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Spell</th><td dir="ltr">Blight Touch</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Keyword</th><td dir="ltr">Shaped</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Range</th><td dir="ltr">Close</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Benefit</th><td dir="ltr">Your blight touch spell may now make ranged touch attacks against creatures within close range. In addition the blight touch spell gains the shaped keyword.</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Special</th><td dir="ltr">When using transfer blight with a shape talent, you only affect a single creature with the transferred disease; at 4 BCB and every 4 thereafter you may affect one additional creature.</td></tr></tbody></table></span></p><h2><span><p dir="auto">Explosive Pustules</p></span></h2><p><span dir="ltr" style="overflow-x: auto;"><table><tbody><tr><th dir="ltr">Prerequisite</th><td dir="ltr">Retain Blight, BCB 6th</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Spell</th><td dir="ltr">Blight Touch</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Benefit</th><td dir="ltr">When bursting a pustule you may cause it to target an adjacent creature with a ranged touch attack; this ranged touch attack does not provoke an attack of opportunity. This effect is still subject to the usual limitation of the disease’s transmission type for the pustule effect; usually meaning the disease only has an effect if it is a contact effect.</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Special</th><td dir="ltr">f you possess the blight ray talent you may improve the range of the burst pustule to 5 feet + 5 feet per 4 BCB. You may also choose to apply shape talents to the pustule burst, but you treat your BCB as ½ for determining the maximum range of this burst; in addition this burst can affect any number of creatures rather than the normal limits of additional creatures allowed by blight ray.</td></tr></tbody></table></span></p><h2><span><p dir="auto">Noxious Pustules</p></span></h2><p><span dir="ltr" style="overflow-x: auto;"><table><tbody><tr><th dir="ltr">Prerequisite</th><td dir="ltr">Retain Blight, BCB 8th</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Spell</th><td dir="ltr">Blight Touch</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Benefit</th><td dir="ltr">You may apply this talent to retain blight, having no initial effect on the pustules retained on the caster. When bursting a pustule as a 3 AP action the caster may choose to spend 1 spell point to convert the disease within; into a noxious mist, causing the disease to become an airborne disease; and causing the burst pustule to release a mist around the caster in a radius of 10 feet around the caster; plus an additional 5 feet per 5 BCB. The caster remains immune to their own pustule’s disease but creatures within the area are subject to the effects of the disease as if it was an airborne disease.</td></tr></tbody></table></span></p><h2><span><p dir="auto">Rapid Blight</p></span></h2><p><span dir="ltr" style="overflow-x: auto;"><table><tbody><tr><th dir="ltr">Prerequisite</th><td dir="ltr">Blight Touch, BCB 3rd</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Spell</th><td dir="ltr">Blight Touch</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Benefit</th><td dir="ltr">You may spend a spell point to cause your blight touch to rapidly progress the effects of a disease the creature is currently infected with. The creature is immediately subject to the saving throw of the onset of the disease if it had not had its onset effect yet; otherwise the creature is immediately subject to one of its standard frequency saving throws. At 10th BCB successful saves against the disease caused by this ability do not prevent the onset, nor does it count towards the saving throws necessary to cure the disease; and the disease’s onset and frequency saves occur at the time they normally would have.</td></tr></tbody></table></span></p><h2><span><p dir="auto">Retain Blight</p></span></h2><p><span dir="ltr" style="overflow-x: auto;"><table><tbody><tr><th dir="ltr">Prerequisite</th><td dir="ltr">Blight Touch, BCB 2nd</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Duration</th><td dir="ltr">1 day per BCB.</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Spell</th><td dir="ltr">Blight Touch</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Saving throw</th><td dir="ltr">None</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Benefit</th><td dir="ltr">You may spend a spell point to touch a creature, object, or surface that contains a disease. If the thing touched by this talent does not have a disease, because the creature casting it would be unable to discern the presence or absence of a disease, the spell point is wasted and the spell fails. If you successfully find a disease you may attempt to contain the disease within yourself without subjecting yourself to the effects of the disease. When touching the disease you must roll against the DC of the disease (1d20 + SPB + CAM + implement enhancement bonus); if your check meets or exceeds the DC of the disease you may retain an instance of the disease in yourself, forming a blighted pustule on your body; a failed check causes you to instead to subject to the disease regardless of its normal transmission type.<br><br>Once retained the pustule lasts for 1 day per BCB before harmlessly disappearing. During this time the caster may cause the pustule to burst as a 3 AP action. Once a pustule has been burst the disease cannot be retained again, and the location heals up, leaving no scarring or mark upon the caster’s body, but the caster remains immune to the effects of this instance of the disease (though does not gain any sort of permanent immunity to future instances of the disease). A burst pustule retains potency for 1 minute per BCB and may have a single use of being applied to a weapon, used to contaminate a food source, or simply touched to a creature in an attempt to infect them with it, subject to the disease’s normal limitations of transmission type.<br><br>A caster may have one instance of a retained blight for every 4 BCB they possess (minimum 1), with each additional after the first forming a new pustule on the body of the caster.</td></tr></tbody></table></span></p><h2><span><p dir="auto">Transfer Blight</p></span></h2><p><span dir="ltr" style="overflow-x: auto;"><table><tbody><tr><th dir="ltr">Prerequisite</th><td dir="ltr">Blight Touch, BCB 4th</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Spell</th><td dir="ltr">Blight Touch</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Benefit</th><td dir="ltr">You may spend an additional spell point when casting blight touch to cause a successful save attack with the spell to transfer a single disease currently affecting you to the target. The disease is still subject to the normal onset time and effects as if the creature had just come in contact with the disease; though this ability ignores the usual transmission methods of the disease. At 12th BCB you may choose to attempt to cure yourself of the disease as part of successfully transferring the disease to the target; making a save against the disease, a successful save removing the disease from you regardless of the normal cure requirements.</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Special</th><td dir="ltr">If you possess the retain blight talent and currently have a retained disease you may instead transfer one of these diseases; immediately removing the pustule from your body and infecting the target with it.<br><br>You may use this ability in conjunction with the rapid blight talent to immediately cause the creature to be affected by the onset of the disease.</td></tr></tbody></table></span></p><h2><span><p dir="auto">Virulent Blight</p></span></h2><p><span dir="ltr" style="overflow-x: auto;"><table><tbody><tr><th dir="ltr">Prerequisite</th><td dir="ltr">Blight Touch</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Spell</th><td dir="ltr">Blight Touch</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Benefit</th><td dir="ltr">A successful save attack with blight touch has the DC of any disease currently affecting the target by 1 + 1 per 5 BCB the caster possesses.</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Special</th><td dir="ltr">If the caster is utilizing the rapid blight talent, they may spend a spell point to instead overwrite the disease’s normal DC and instead replace it with their save attack roll, but only for the instance of the Rapid Blight rather than the normal effect of this talent. Normal saves against the disease are still made against the disease’s normal DC, plus the DC increase normally granted by this talent.Hosted by MirahezePowered by MediaWikiCreative Commons Attribution 4.0 International (CC BY 4.0)</td></tr></tbody></table></span></p>