---
spell: Conjure Wall
tags:
  - Spell
  - Other-Affinity-Spell
fileClass:
  - Spell
share: true
title: Conjure Wall
keyword: Creation, Emanation
Prerequisites: One Affinity Keyword Universal Talent, See Text
Target: Continuous line containing one 5-foot square per BCB
Duration: See text
Range: Close
Action: 4 AP
Saving Throw: See text
Spell Resistance: Yes (see text)
Description: |-
  You may spend a spell point to conjure a wall composed of an element you possess an affinity for at a space within range. This wall may be as large as one 5-foot square per BCB, and each square must be placed adjacent to another section of wall in a continuous line. Additional effects, saving throws, and details are determined by the wall type talent applied to this spell when casting. Once the spell ends the wall dissipates leaving no material behind.
  Duration of wall talents is generally determined by the individual wall type talent. 
Special: When you gain this spell, you gain all wall type talent that you qualify for (if you do not qualify for any wall type talents you cannot select this spell). For the purposes of prepared casters this spell does not take a slot to prepare, but also cannot be used without a wall type talent prepared, wall type talents take up slots as normal.
---

<p><span dir="ltr" style="overflow-x: auto;"><table><tbody><tr><th dir="ltr">Keyword</th><td dir="ltr">Creation, Emanation</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Prerequisites</th><td dir="ltr">One Affinity Keyword Universal Talent, See Text</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Target</th><td dir="ltr">Continuous line containing one 5-foot square per BCB</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Duration</th><td dir="ltr">See text</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Range</th><td dir="ltr">Close</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Action</th><td dir="ltr">4 AP</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Saving Throw</th><td dir="ltr">See text</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Spell Resistance</th><td dir="ltr">Yes (see text)</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Description</th><td dir="ltr">You may spend a spell point to conjure a wall composed of an element you possess an affinity for at a space within range. This wall may be as large as one 5-foot square per BCB, and each square must be placed adjacent to another section of wall in a continuous line. Additional effects, saving throws, and details are determined by the wall type talent applied to this spell when casting. Once the spell ends the wall dissipates leaving no material behind.
Duration of wall talents is generally determined by the individual wall type talent. </td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Special</th><td dir="ltr">When you gain this spell, you gain all wall type talent that you qualify for (if you do not qualify for any wall type talents you cannot select this spell). For the purposes of prepared casters this spell does not take a slot to prepare, but also cannot be used without a wall type talent prepared, wall type talents take up slots as normal.</td></tr></tbody></table></span></p><span><span><hr></span></span><h1><span><p dir="auto">General Conjure Wall Talents</p></span></h1><span><span><hr></span></span><h2><span><p dir="auto">Conjure Maze</p></span></h2><p><span dir="ltr" style="overflow-x: auto;"><table><tbody><tr><th dir="ltr">Spell</th><td dir="ltr">Conjure Wall</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Prerequisite</th><td dir="ltr">Conjure Wall</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Benefit</th><td dir="ltr">When placing sections of wall, you do not need to arrange those sections in a continuous line but they must still be adjacent to another section of wall.</td></tr></tbody></table></span></p><h2><span><p dir="auto">Conjure Pillar</p></span></h2><p><span dir="ltr" style="overflow-x: auto;"><table><tbody><tr><th dir="ltr">Spell</th><td dir="ltr">Conjure Wall</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Prerequisite</th><td dir="ltr">Conjure Wall, Conjure Maze</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Benefit</th><td dir="ltr">When placing sections of wall, you may place those sections into any open space within range even if they are not adjacent to other sections of wall.</td></tr></tbody></table></span></p><h2><span><p dir="auto">Lava Wall</p></span></h2><p><span dir="ltr" style="overflow-x: auto;"><table><tbody><tr><th dir="ltr">Spell</th><td dir="ltr">Conjure Wall</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Prerequisite</th><td dir="ltr">Fire Affinity; Conjure Wall, and Wall of Earth, BCB 14th</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Saving Throw</th><td dir="ltr">Physical(Agi)</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Duration</th><td dir="ltr">(See Text)</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Benefit</th><td dir="ltr">When you create a wall of stone with the wall of earth talent you may spend an additional spell point to cause it to become superheated stone to the point it turns to lava. Unlike a normal wall of stone a creature may attempt to move through a wall of lava by spending a 4 AP action, but a creature attempting to move through a wall of lava takes 1d6 fire damage per BCB. A wall of lava has the same hit points, thickness, and hardness as a wall of stone. Weapons striking a wall of lava take 2d6 fire damage (or the creature if it was a unarmed strike or natural weapon). Creatures who begin their turn next to a wall of lava take 2d6 fire damage.
If a wall of lava is conjured from under a creature they are subject to a Physical(Agi) save attack. A successful attack results in the creature take damage as if they attempted to pass through the wall of lava, if you fail the creature may move to an adjacent square and take no damage.
Finally once per round you may cause it to erupt as a 2 AP action, allowing you to make a ranged touch attack against a creature within 60 feet of the wall. Creatures struck by the lava wall take 1d4 damage per 2 BCB, but doing so reduces the overall size of the wall by 1d4 5ft squares.
If any 5-foot length of wall takes 20 points or more of dark or water damage in 1 round, that length returns to normal stone, though reverts to lava if it remains adjacent to other segments of lava wall; this only affects stone wall segments originally conjured from the lava wall.
A lava wall eventually cools to return to a standard stone wall after a number of rounds equal to your BCB have passed, lasting instead the duration of a Wall of Earth for the remaining duration. </td></tr></tbody></table></span></p><h2><span><p dir="auto">Wandering Wall</p></span></h2><p><span dir="ltr" style="overflow-x: auto;"><table><tbody><tr><th dir="ltr">Spell</th><td dir="ltr">Conjure Wall</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Prerequisite</th><td dir="ltr">Conjure Wall</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Benefit</th><td dir="ltr">As a 2 AP action, you may adjust the position of any sections of wall to any other legal placement within range. The total amount of movement, divided between all adjusted sections of wall, must be less than 5 feet per BCB. This may not be utilized with walls with an instantaneous duration.</td></tr></tbody></table></span></p><span><span><hr></span></span><h1><span><p dir="auto">Wall Type Talents</p></span></h1><span><span><hr></span></span><h2><span><p dir="auto">Mist Wall</p></span></h2><p><span dir="ltr" style="overflow-x: auto;"><table><tbody><tr><th dir="ltr">Spell</th><td dir="ltr">Conjure Wall</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Prerequisite</th><td dir="ltr">Water(Essence) Affinity, Conjure Wall</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Keyword</th><td dir="ltr">Maneuver</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Saving Throw</th><td dir="ltr">Physical(Str)</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Duration</th><td dir="ltr">1 minute per BCB</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Benefit</th><td dir="ltr">You a wall of misty vapor. The wall obscures vision, granting concealment (20% miss chance) against creatures on the other side of the wall. A creature that shares a square with the wall counts as being on neither side of the wall and neither benefits nor suffers from the concealment. At 10th BCB the caster may cause the mist to obscure more granting total concealment (50% miss chance). Only a tier 3 or higher wind disperses the wall, and it does so in 1 round.</td></tr></tbody></table></span></p><h2><span><p dir="auto">Wall of Darkness</p></span></h2><p><span dir="ltr" style="overflow-x: auto;"><table><tbody><tr><th dir="ltr">Spell</th><td dir="ltr">Conjure Wall</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Prerequisite</th><td dir="ltr">Void(Air-Anima) Affinity, Conjure Wall</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Saving Throw</th><td dir="ltr">Resilience(End) negates</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Duration</th><td dir="ltr">1 round per BCB</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Benefit</th><td dir="ltr">You create a wall of black shadows that cannot be seen through and saps the strength of those that pass through it. The lighting within the area of the wall is lowered to darkness (regardless of existing lighting conditions) and the light level within 5 feet + 5 feet per 5 BCB of the wall is lowered by 1 step. Creatures on opposite sides of the wall have total concealment (50% miss chance) from each other unless they possess darkvision. If a creature attempts to pass through the wall, make a Resilience(End) save attack against the creature. Success causes the creature to be fatigued while two degrees of success cause the creature to be exhausted.
The wall need not touch the ground, but must be continuous and unbroken when formed. </td></tr></tbody></table></span></p><h2><span><p dir="auto">Wall of Fire</p></span></h2><p><span dir="ltr" style="overflow-x: auto;"><table><tbody><tr><th dir="ltr">Spell</th><td dir="ltr">Conjure Wall</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Prerequisite</th><td dir="ltr">Fire(Essence) Affinity, Conjure Wall, BCB 5th</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Saving Throw</th><td dir="ltr">Physical(Agi) Half</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Duration</th><td dir="ltr">1 round per BCB</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Benefit</th><td dir="ltr">You conjure a wall of fire that does not hinder movement, but does harm creatures near or passing through it. One side of the wall, selected by you, sends forth waves of heat, dealing 2d4 points of fire damage to creatures within 10 feet and 1d4 points of fire damage to those further than 10 feet but within 20 feet. In addition, the wall deals 2d6 points of fire damage to any creature that shares a space with or passes through the wall. The wall deals this damage when it appears, and to all creatures in the area on your turn each round (each creature only takes this damage once on your turn, using the value for the closest proximity, even if it is within range of multiple sections of wall, but may take damage for passing through the wall outside of your turn).
At 10th BCB, and every 5 thereafter, the damage die size (but not the quantity) improves by 1 step (1d4 to 1d6, 2d4 to 2d6, 2d6 to 2d8, 2d8 to 2d10, etc.).
If you evoke the wall so that it appears where creatures are, those creatures take damage as if sharing a space with the wall. If any 5-foot length of wall takes 20 points or more of dark or water damage in 1 round, that length goes away. </td></tr></tbody></table></span></p><h2><span><p dir="auto">Wall of Ice</p></span></h2><p><span dir="ltr" style="overflow-x: auto;"><table><tbody><tr><th dir="ltr">Spell</th><td dir="ltr">Conjure Wall</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Prerequisite</th><td dir="ltr">Cold(Fire-Anima) Affinity, Conjure Wall</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Saving Throw</th><td dir="ltr">Physical(Agi) Negates</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Duration</th><td dir="ltr">1 minute per BCB</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Benefit</th><td dir="ltr">A sheet of strong, hard ice appears blocking movement of creatures attempting to move through squares it occupies. The wall is 1 inch thick per four BCB. The plane can be oriented in any fashion as long as it is anchored. A vertical wall need only be anchored on the floor, while a horizontal or slanting wall must be anchored on at least one side.
Each square of wall has 5 hit points per inch of thickness and 5 hardness. Fire and Light damage bypass any hardness the wall possesses. A section of wall whose hit points drop to 0 is breached. Even when the ice has been broken through, a sheet of frigid air remains in the broken square. Any creature stepping through it, including the one who broke through the wall, automatically takes 1d6 points of cold damage plus an additional 1d6 per 5 BCB you possess. </td></tr></tbody></table></span></p><h2><span><p dir="auto">Wind Wall</p></span></h2><p><span dir="ltr" style="overflow-x: auto;"><table><tbody><tr><th dir="ltr">Spell</th><td dir="ltr">Conjure Wall</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Prerequisite</th><td dir="ltr">Air(Essence) Affinity, Conjure Wall</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Saving Throw</th><td dir="ltr">None</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Duration</th><td dir="ltr">1 round per BCB</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Benefit</th><td dir="ltr">You create a wall of wind. Squares of wind
wall
are created with tier 3 wind rising upwards from the squares the wall is within; improving by 1 tier at 10th BCB and every 5 BCB thereafter. Creatures whose speeds are lower than the speed adjustment of the wind are not blown away, but fail to cross into or through the wind wall and are knocked prone. Creatures whose speed matches the speed adjustment may still move at a rate of 5 feet through the wind wall as a 4 AP action. Creatures moving through the wind wall have their overall movement for the turn reduced by the speed adjustment of the wind. Projectiles passing through the wind wall take double the normal ranged weapon penalty for the tier of wind due to the upwards direction of the wind wall. </td></tr></tbody></table></span></p>