---
share: true
---
Component discipline feats are representative of the structure of magic, such as the somatic, runes, and implements that make up the parts of casting a spell. A character may only have one Component Discipline feat.

<h3><span><p dir="auto">Magical Diagram (Component, Magic)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Casting<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    You gain Diagram Spell twice as a bonus talent if you do not already possess it, if you already possess it you may instead gain a talent to a new talent or spell you qualify for, or two spells if you already had it taken twice. Your spells may only be cast using Diagram Spell and are treated as always being modified by this meta talent, though your spells created from your diagram may affect creatures up to close range rather than being within the area of the diagram, though this range cannot exceed the maximum range of the spell imbued in the diagram; in addition this allows area of effect spells to occur outside of the diagram, though still must be contained within this close range area.<br><br>In addition the caster may choose to make a diagram smaller than medium, though this does not reduce the time required to create the diagram. This may be utilized to create diagrams on smaller objects, though spells with triggering conditions treat the diagram as the point of origin if a spell would affect an area rather than a targeted creature; diagrams activated manually may be aimed and targeted as normal within the close range area of the diagram.<br><br>Finally, the caster may make a diagram in the air, rather than on a surface, but such a diagram is unstable and dissipates after 1 hour, and must be redrawn. The caster may attempt to hastily cast without first drawing a diagram, instead attempting to draw a diagram quickly within the air as part of casting, but doing so requires a DC 20 + 2x the BCB of the spell, concentration check<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Somatic Mastery (Component, Magic)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Casting<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    You're capable of casting with minimal movement, making it less likely your motions will be hindered. You may roll twice and take the better result when attempting to cast while bound or grappled. In addition you gain Armored Caster as a bonus feat even if you do not meet the prerequisites.<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Unbound Implement (Component, Magic)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Casting<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    Your implement may be wielded in different ways. You may use your implement without holding it as long as your implement is on your person (such as a ring, amulet, or earring); but the implement must not be stowed away in a backpack or other container. If a class feature would require the character to hold their implement (such as sword and tome style of Eldritch Knight), they may maintain the benefits of their implement as long as the implement is still on their person.<br></p></span></p>