---
share: true
---
Incantation discipline feats are representative of the spoken components of magic that make up the parts of casting a spell. A character may only have one Incantation Discipline feat.

<h3><span><p dir="auto">Silent Caster (Incantation, Magic)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Casting<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    Your style of casting has allowed you to become more stealthy in your casting. All your spells lack a verbal incantation, as if modified by the Silent Spell meta talent, without the increased spell point cost.<br></p></span></p><h3><span><p dir="auto">Spellbinding Serenade (Incantation, Magic)</p></span></h3><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Prerequisite</b>:    Casting<br></p></span></p><p><span><p dir="auto"><b>Benefit</b>:    You may choose to sing or perform the verbal components of your spells. When casting you may make a Perform(Oratory) or Perform(Sing) skill check with a DC of 12+ the BCB of the spell currently being cast. If you suceed the spell is cast as normal and grants a +2 to the DC to identify the spell plus an additonal +2 for each degree of sucess of the perform check. In addition you may attempt to hide the spell as normal singing treating your Perform check as a Bluff check, requiring creatures to make a successful Sense Motive check against this check to determine it is a spell being cast.<br><br>In addition spells with a duration of concentration cast in this way reduce the AP cost to concentrate on them by 1 (minimum 0) but you cannot concentrate on or cast any additonal spells while concentrating on a spell in this way. In addition spells concentrated on in this way require an additonal Perform check at the same DC to continue the performance.<br><br>If failing the skill check the spell instead manifests at 1 lower BCB, and an additonal BCB lower per degree of failure. This effect may stack on spells being concentrated on with this ability. Spells reduced to 0 BCB or lower fail to cast, or immediately end, but still consume the spell and resources as normal.<br></p></span></p>