---
fileClass:
  - Spell
keyword: Shell, Transmutation
prerequisite: Earth(Water-Anima) Affinity
share: true
title: Conjure Barrier
tags:
  - Spell
  - Cold-Affinity-Spell
target: One creature.
duration: Concentration or 1 minute per BCB (see description)
range: Touch
action: 3 AP
saving_throw: Mental(Foc) negates (harmless)
spell_resistance: No
description: "You can surround a target with a magical shield for as long as you concentrate. You may spend a spell point to allow the spell to continue without concentration for 1 minute per BCB. You may dismiss the spell before its full duration as a 3 AP action. When casting Personal Barrier, choose either to provide either a bonus to the target’s armor check or temporary hit points. \r\r- Deflection: Personal Barrier may provide a +2 deflection bonus to the target’s armor check, improving by an additional +1 for every 6 BCB.\r- Barrier: Personal Barrier provides 1 temporary hit point per point of BCB plus an additional amount equal to your CAM. While concentrating to maintain this spell, these temporary hit points refresh each turn when you spend the action to concentrate. When a spell point is spent to allow the spell to continue without concentration, the barrier instead regains a number of hit points equal to your CAM at the start of the target’s turn (up to the spell’s normal maximum). The spell ends when these temporary hit points are fully depleted."
---

<p><span><table><tbody><tr><th>Keyword</th><td>Shell, Transmutation</td></tr><tr><th>Prerequisite</th><td>Earth(Water-Anima) Affinity</td></tr><tr><th>Target</th><td>One creature.</td></tr><tr><th>Duration</th><td>Concentration or 1 minute per BCB (see description)</td></tr><tr><th>Range</th><td>Touch</td></tr><tr><th>Action</th><td>3 AP</td></tr><tr><th>Saving throw</th><td>Mental(Foc) negates (harmless)</td></tr><tr><th>Spell resistance</th><td>No</td></tr><tr><th>Description</th><td>You can surround a target with a magical shield for as long as you concentrate. You may spend a spell point to allow the spell to continue without concentration for 1 minute per BCB. You may dismiss the spell before its full duration as a 3 AP action. When casting Personal Barrier, choose either to provide either a bonus to the target’s armor check or temporary hit points. 
<ul>
<li dir="auto">Deflection: Personal Barrier may provide a +2 deflection bonus to the target’s armor check, improving by an additional +1 for every 6 BCB.</li>
<li dir="auto">Barrier: Personal Barrier provides 1 temporary hit point per point of BCB plus an additional amount equal to your CAM. While concentrating to maintain this spell, these temporary hit points refresh each turn when you spend the action to concentrate. When a spell point is spent to allow the spell to continue without concentration, the barrier instead regains a number of hit points equal to your CAM at the start of the target’s turn (up to the spell’s normal maximum). The spell ends when these temporary hit points are fully depleted.</li></ul></td></tr></tbody></table>
</span></p><span><span><hr></span></span><h1><span><p dir="auto">General Conjure Barrier Talents</p></span></h1><span><span><hr></span></span><h2><span><p dir="auto">Ablative Barrier</p></span></h2><p><span><table><tbody><tr><th>Spell</th><td>Conjure Barrier</td></tr><tr><th>Prerequisite</th><td>Conjure Barrier</td></tr><tr><th>Benefit</th><td>When casting personal barrier with this talent you may allow it to provide both the Shield and Barrier bonuses to the target’s for the duration of the spell. When used in this way, if less than half of the temporary hit points are remaining, the deflection bonus to the target’s armor check from this spell is reduced by half. The spell ends when the temporary hit points are completely depleted.
<p dir="auto">You may instead spend an additional spell point when using this talent to instead provide both the Shield and Barrier bonuses to the target’s for the duration of the spell, no longer reduced as the temporary hit points are reduced, and no longer ends when the temporary hit points are depleted; though the temporary hit points no longer replenish once they have been depleted.</p></td></tr></tbody></table><p dir="auto"></p></span></p><h2><span><p dir="auto">Critical Barrier</p></span></h2><p><span dir="ltr" style="overflow-x: auto;"><table><tbody><tr><th dir="ltr">Spell</th><td dir="ltr">Conjure Barrier</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Prerequisite</th><td dir="ltr">Conjure Barrier, BCB 4th</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Benefit</th><td dir="ltr">When utilizing the Barrier ability of Conjure Barrier to grant temporary hit points; when the barrier's temporary hit points are depleted, any damage in excess of the barrier's temporary hit points are completely prevented from this single instance of damage.</td></tr></tbody></table></span></p><h2><span><p dir="auto">Stationary Barrier</p></span></h2><p><span><table><tbody><tr><th>Spell</th><td>Conjure Barrier</td></tr><tr><th>Prerequisite</th><td>Conjure Barrier, BCB 5th</td></tr><tr><th>Target</th><td>Area 10-ft. Radius + 5 feet per 5 BCB</td></tr><tr><th>Benefit</th><td>You may spend an additional spell point as part of casting Ablative barrier to instead target an area placing the barrier in this location. You must choose the temporary hit point option when using this talent, or utilize the ablative barrier talent. 
<p dir="auto">As part of casting this barrier you may choose to include or exclude any creatures from the barrier. Excluded creatures cannot enter the area of the barrier and must first deplete the temporary hit points of the barrier. </p>
<p dir="auto">When cast in this way the maximum temporary hit points are doubled, but restore at the same rate as normal. Included creatures within the area of the barrier are protected by the barrier depleting any temporary hit points of the barrier before damaging the creatures within. Once these temporary hit points are depleted the barrier ends as normal.</p></td></tr></tbody></table><p dir="auto"></p></span></p>