---
fileClass:
  - Spell
keyword: Force, Transmutation
prerequisite: " Air(Essence) or Void(Wind-Anima) Affinity"
share: true
title: Slow Fall
tags:
  - Spell
  - Air-Affinity-Spell
  - Void-Affinity-Spell
target: One creature per 3 BCB, no two may be more than 20 feet apart.
duration: 1 round/level
range: Close
action: Reaction
saving_throw: Mental (negates harmless)
spell_resistance: Yes
description: You may spend a spell point to cause the affected creatures fall a mere 60 feet per round and take no damage upon landing while the spell is in effect. When the spell duration expires, the normal rate of falling resumes. You may spend an additional spell point to affect an additional creature, plus one more per 3 BCB.
---

<p><span dir="ltr" style="overflow-x: auto;"><table><tbody><tr><th dir="ltr">Keyword</th><td dir="ltr">Force, Transmutation</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Prerequisite</th><td dir="ltr"> Air(Essence) or Void(Wind-Anima) Affinity</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Target</th><td dir="ltr">One creature per 3 BCB, no two may be more than 20 feet apart.</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Duration</th><td dir="ltr">1 round/level</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Range</th><td dir="ltr">Close</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Action</th><td dir="ltr">Reaction</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Saving throw</th><td dir="ltr">Mental (negates harmless)</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Spell resistance</th><td dir="ltr">Yes</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Description</th><td dir="ltr">You may spend a spell point to cause the affected creatures fall a mere 60 feet per round and take no damage upon landing while the spell is in effect. When the spell duration expires, the normal rate of falling resumes. You may spend an additional spell point to affect an additional creature, plus one more per 3 BCB.</td></tr></tbody></table></span></p><span><span><hr></span></span><h1><span><p dir="auto">General Slow Fall Talents</p></span></h1><span><span><hr></span></span><h2><span><p dir="auto">Fly</p></span></h2><p><span dir="ltr" style="overflow-x: auto;"><table><tbody><tr><th dir="ltr">Spell</th><td dir="ltr">Slow Fall</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Prerequisite</th><td dir="ltr">Slow Fall, BCB 5th</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Action</th><td dir="ltr">4 AP</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Duration</th><td dir="ltr">Concentration or 1 minute per BCB</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Benefit</th><td dir="ltr">You can increase the casting time of slow fall to a 4 AP action to grant a creature a fly speed of 60 feet with good maneuverability as long as you concentrate. The target creature gains a bonus on Fly skill checks equal to 1/2 your BCB.<br><br>If the creature moves beyond medium range of the caster while he is concentrating on the spell the spell immediately ends. The caster may spend a spell point to allow the spell to continue for 1 minute per BCB.<br><br>You may spend an additional spell point to affect an additional creature, plus one more per 3 BCB.</td></tr></tbody></table></span></p><h2><span><p dir="auto">Levitate</p></span></h2><p><span dir="ltr" style="overflow-x: auto;"><table><tbody><tr><th dir="ltr">Spell</th><td dir="ltr">Slow Fall</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Prerequisite</th><td dir="ltr">Slow Fall, BCB 3rd</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Action</th><td dir="ltr">4 AP</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Duration</th><td dir="ltr">Concentration or 1 minute per BCB(see text)</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Benefit</th><td dir="ltr">You can increase the casting time of slow fall to a 4 AP action to cause a creature or object to begin to levitate. While concentrating the object or creature may move up to 20 feet vertically, up or down, per round as a 2 AP action. Should you cease concentration the creature or object begins to immediately fall. This spell cannot move a creature or object horizontally, though a creature can use this to reach a ledge and climb onto on their own.<br><br>You may instead choose to instead to leave the creature on the ground, and instead levitate 1 foot above the floor, gaining no vertical height, but allowing them to instead move at a speed of 30 feet as a 2 AP action across the ground, ignoring the effects of difficult terrain and ground-based hazards such as caltrops (effects with more than a foot of vertical height such as sharp thorns, spells like black tentacles, or even thick vegetation can impede or hinder as normal). Should the creature fall off a cliff or other surface, they are instead treated as if they were under the effects of the base slow fall spell, falling slowly and safely for the remainder of the spell.<br><br>You may spend a spell point to allow this to continue without concentration; but the creature or object simply stays in the location you left it when you spent the spell point; and if the creature is unwilling it may make a new save each round to end the effect. Creatures cannot be levitated beyond close range of the caster. Creatures and objects lifted with this spell cannot exceed 100lbs per BCB.<br><br>You may spend an additional spell point to affect an additional creature, plus one more per 3 BCB.</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Special</th><td dir="ltr">If you also possess the Fly talent, you may spend an additional spell point when casting to allow the creature to hover, or fly straight up, without the need to make an acrobatics check to fly.</td></tr></tbody></table></span></p>