---
fileClass:
  - Spell
keyword: Illusion
prerequisite: Fire(Essence) Affinity
share: true
title: Decoy
tags:
  - Spell
  - Fire-Affinity-Spell
target: Self
duration: Concentration or 1 minute per BCB (see description)
range: Personal
action: 4 AP
saving_throw: None
spell_resistance: No
description: "You create two illusionary copies of yourself which shares your space and mimics your movements, including moving with you, for as long as you concentrate. You may spend a spell point to the spell to continue without concentration for up to 1 minute per BCB.\r\rAttacks and spells requiring an attack roll targeting you have a chance to target the illusionary copy instead. The copy uses your touch AC, and is destroyed on a successful attack roll against it. At 6 BCB, and every 6 BCB thereafter, an additional copy is created; while concentrating to maintain this spell, you regain 1 copy at the start of your turn if you are below your maximum number of copies (2 + 1 per 6 BCB). The attacker then rolls a d100 for each attack to determine whether the attack is targeting a copy (with 3 copies present the attacker would need above a 75 to hit you as it would be a 25% chance to hit the right target). The spell ends when no copies remain, even if you are concentrating to maintain it. Area spells and spells which do not require an attack roll are not affected by your copies, nor do they destroy them.\rThe attacker must be able to see the illusion to be fooled. If the attacker is blind, or would have some way of easily detecting the real creature, such as blindsight or lifesense, the attacker need not roll to determine if it is attacking the copy."
---

<p><span><table><tbody><tr><th>Keyword</th><td>Illusion</td></tr><tr><th>Prerequisite</th><td>Fire(Essence) Affinity</td></tr><tr><th>Target</th><td>Self</td></tr><tr><th>Duration</th><td>Concentration or 1 minute per BCB (see description)</td></tr><tr><th>Range</th><td>Personal</td></tr><tr><th>Action</th><td>4 AP</td></tr><tr><th>Saving throw</th><td>None</td></tr><tr><th>Spell resistance</th><td>No</td></tr><tr><th>Description</th><td>You create two illusionary copies of yourself which shares your space and mimics your movements, including moving with you, for as long as you concentrate. You may spend a spell point to the spell to continue without concentration for up to 1 minute per BCB.
<p dir="auto">Attacks and spells requiring an attack roll targeting you have a chance to target the illusionary copy instead. The copy uses your touch AC, and is destroyed on a successful attack roll against it. At 6 BCB, and every 6 BCB thereafter, an additional copy is created; while concentrating to maintain this spell, you regain 1 copy at the start of your turn if you are below your maximum number of copies (2 + 1 per 6 BCB). The attacker then rolls a d100 for each attack to determine whether the attack is targeting a copy (with 3 copies present the attacker would need above a 75 to hit you as it would be a 25% chance to hit the right target). The spell ends when no copies remain, even if you are concentrating to maintain it. Area spells and spells which do not require an attack roll are not affected by your copies, nor do they destroy them.<br>
The attacker must be able to see the illusion to be fooled. If the attacker is blind, or would have some way of easily detecting the real creature, such as blindsight or lifesense, the attacker need not roll to determine if it is attacking the copy.</p></td></tr></tbody></table><p dir="auto"></p></span></p><span><span><hr></span></span><h1><span><p dir="auto">General Decoy Talents</p></span></h1><span><span><hr></span></span><h2><span><p dir="auto">Copy Burst</p></span></h2><p><span dir="ltr" style="overflow-x: auto;"><table><tbody><tr><th dir="ltr">Spell</th><td dir="ltr">Decoy</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Prerequisite</th><td dir="ltr">Decoy</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Saving throw</th><td dir="ltr">Physical(Agi)</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Benefit</th><td dir="ltr">You may spend an additional spell point to fill your copies with volatile magic. When one of your copies is destroyed by a successful melee attack it bursts into a spray of searing motes of magic which cover the attacker. Make a save attack, on a success the attacker takes 1 point of fire damage per BCB.</td></tr></tbody></table></span></p><h2><span><p dir="auto">Legion</p></span></h2><p><span dir="ltr" style="overflow-x: auto;"><table><tbody><tr><th dir="ltr">Spell</th><td dir="ltr">Decoy</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Prerequisite</th><td dir="ltr">Decoy, BCB 5th</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Benefit</th><td dir="ltr">You may spend an additional spell point to increase the starting and maximum number of illusionary copies you may have by an additional 1 plus an additional 1 per 10 BCB.</td></tr><tr><th dir="ltr">Special</th><td dir="ltr">If you have the Mislead talent you may now create decoys within Close range of yourself as part of casting Decoy.</td></tr></tbody></table></span></p><h2><span><p dir="auto">Lingering Presence</p></span></h2><p><span><table><tbody><tr><th>Spell</th><td>Decoy</td></tr><tr><th>Prerequisite</th><td>Mislead, Decoy, BCB 4th</td></tr><tr><th>Duration</th><td>(see text)</td></tr><tr><th>Benefit</th><td>As part of casting decoy, concentrating on decoy, or as a 2 AP action on your turn while a decoy remains; you may spend a spell point to designate one decoy as a having having part of your essence. This designated decoy counts as an origin point for effects centered on you such as spells or class features (such as Auras) in addition to yourself. This does not duplicate the effect but rather allow effects to cover additional area, should overlap between the two occur.
<p dir="auto">Once activated this effect lasts as long as you concentrate on the decoy spell. If you cease concentration or spend a spell point to allow decoy to continue, this effect lasts for 1 round + 1 round per BCB; and the designated decoy lasts these additonal number of rounds even if the other decoys disappate due to concentration ending on the decoy spell.</p></td></tr><tr><th>Special</th><td>If using the Legion talent you may designate one additional Decoy per 10 BCB.</td></tr></tbody></table><p dir="auto"></p></span></p><h2><span><p dir="auto">Mislead</p></span></h2><p><span><table><tbody><tr><th>Spell</th><td>Decoy</td></tr><tr><th>Prerequisite</th><td>Decoy, BCB 3rd</td></tr><tr><th>Range</th><td>Close</td></tr><tr><th>Benefit</th><td>You may spend an additional spell point when casting Mislead to allow your copies additional autonomy to help further confuse foes. When you have at least 1 illusionary copy you may direct the copy to move using any your speed movement mode you have available (land, swim, fly, etc.). This is a purely mental action that does not require any AP to perform; instead the copy uses its own actions to move using the same number of AP you would normally have available in a turn to perform these movements. Duplictes may still provoke attacks of opportunity due to their movements as normal. Moving through a duplicate's sqaure, or a duplicate moving through your own sqaure, counts as moving through an Ally's square for the purposes of determining if movement would provoke. Allies other than yourself attempting to move through a duplicate's square immediately dispels and destroys that copy.
<p dir="auto">The copy remains in its space until directed to move again or until directed to share a space with you again at which point it may resume automatically moving with you. If you have more than 1 illusionary copy, you may direct any copies you have to remain with you, share a space with another copy, or simply occupy their own space. Copies sharing a space with each other require attackers to roll to determine which copy is being targeted similar to as if they were sharing a space with you.</p>
<p dir="auto">If the decoy does not share your square, attackers do not need to roll to determine whether they target it or you, but may still be confused as to the real body's current location. A creature may be able to quickly deduce the real body's location an attack has been made against it by you; due to quickly determining any attacks that were real and those that were fake. </p>
<p dir="auto">Illusory Decoys that are directed to go beyond the maximum range of this talent, or if you move out of range of the decoys without directing them to stay within range, immediately cease to exist.</p></td></tr><tr><th>Special</th><td>Illusory copies may provide flank a target if you would normally threaten squares to flank as long as creatures have yet to determine the original body's location.<p dir="auto"></p>
<p dir="auto">Creatures may lose track of the real body again should the copies reenter your square or should you pass through the square of a copy.</p></td></tr></tbody></table><p dir="auto"></p></span></p><h2><span><p dir="auto">Shadow Duplicity</p></span></h2><p><span><table><tbody><tr><th>Spell</th><td>Decoy</td></tr><tr><th>Prerequisite</th><td>Decoy, Mislead, BCB 8th</td></tr><tr><th>Saving throw</th><td>Mental(Foc) negates</td></tr><tr><th>Benefit</th><td>You may spend a spell point to cause your decoys to become quasi-real. Once per round when you attack make a save attack against the target in additon to to the attack roll; a succesful save attack causes any decoys capable of mimicing the attack (such as being within range to hit the creature with a melee attack) to attack the target. For each additional decoy within range to micmic your attack the attack deals an additonal 1 point of untyped nonlethal damage in additon to the normal damage of the attack. Further attacks made by you until the start of your next turn against the same target gain the benefit. In addition to this effect the creature is unable to discern the real attack from the duplicates and thus does not automatically determine the real body from these attacks.
<p dir="auto">A failed save attack allows the creature to ignore the attacks from the fake copies, and determine the original body as normal.</p></td></tr></tbody></table><p dir="auto"></p></span></p>